# Kill sessions

The `KILL SESSION` command is to terminate running sessions.

!!! note

    - Only the NebulaGraph `root` user can terminate sessions.
    - After executing the `KILL SESSION` command, all Graph services synchronize the latest session information after `2* session_reclaim_interval_secs` seconds (`120` seconds by default).

## Syntax

You can run the `KILL SESSION` command to terminate one or multiple sessions. The syntax is as follows:

- To terminate one session
  
  ```
  KILL {SESSION|SESSIONS} <SessionId>
  ```

  - `{SESSION|SESSIONS}`: `SESSION` or `SESSIONS`, both are supported. 
  - `<SessionId>`: Specifies the ID of one session. You can run the [SHOW SESSIONS command](../../3.ngql-guide/7.general-query-statements/6.show/17.show-sessions.md) to view the IDs of sessions.


- To terminate multiple sessions

  ```
  SHOW SESSIONS 
  | YIELD $-.SessionId AS sid [WHERE <filter_clause>]
  | KILL {SESSION|SESSIONS} $-.sid
  ```

  !!! note
          
        The `KILL SESSION` command supports the pipeline operation, combining the `SHOW SESSIONS` command with the `KILL SESSION` command to terminate multiple sessions.

  - `[WHERE <filter_clause>]`：
    - Optional, the `WHERE` clause is used to filter sessions. `<filter_expression>` specifies a session filtering expression, for example, `WHERE $-.CreateTime < datetime("2022-12-14T18:00:00")`. If the `WHERE` clause is not specified, all sessions are terminated.
    - Filtering conditions in a `WHERE` clause include: `SessionId`, `UserName`, `SpaceName`, `CreateTime`, `UpdateTime`, `GraphAddr`, `Timezone`, and `ClientIp`. You can run the [SHOW SESSIONS command](../../3.ngql-guide/7.general-query-statements/6.show/17.show-sessions.md) to view descriptions of these conditions.
      
  - `{SESSION|SESSIONS}`: `SESSION` or `SESSIONS`, both are supported.

  !!! caution

        Please use filtering conditions with caution to avoid deleting sessions by mistake.


## Examples

- To terminate one session
   
  ```
  nebula> KILL SESSION 1672887983842984 
  ```

- To terminate multiple sessions

  - Terminate all sessions whose creation time is less than `2023-01-05T18:00:00`.
    
    ```
    nebula> SHOW SESSIONS | YIELD $-.SessionId AS sid WHERE $-.CreateTime < datetime("2023-01-05T18:00:00") | KILL SESSIONS $-.sid
    ```

  - Terminates the two sessions with the earliest creation times.
    
    ```
    nebula> SHOW SESSIONS | YIELD $-.SessionId AS sid, $-.CreateTime as CreateTime | ORDER BY $-.CreateTime ASC | LIMIT 2 | KILL SESSIONS $-.sid
    ```

  - Terminates all sessions created by the username `session_user1`.
    
    ```
    nebula> SHOW SESSIONS | YIELD $-.SessionId as sid WHERE $-.UserName == "session_user1" | KILL SESSIONS $-.sid
    ```

  - Terminate all sessions.
    
    ```
    nebula> SHOW SESSIONS | YIELD $-.SessionId as sid | KILL SESSION $-.sid

    // Or
    nebula> SHOW SESSIONS | KILL SESSIONS $-.SessionId
    ```
    
    !!! caution
        
        When you terminate all sessions, the current session is terminated. Please use it with caution.
