# String

Fixed-length strings and variable-length strings are supported.

## Declaration and literal representation

The string type is declared with the keywords of:

- `STRING`: Variable-length strings.
- `FIXED_STRING(<length>)`: Fixed-length strings. `<length>` is the length of the string, such as `FIXED_STRING(32)`.

A string type is used to store a sequence of characters (text). The literal constant is a sequence of characters of any length surrounded by double or single quotes. For example, `"Hello, Cooper"` or `'Hello, Cooper'`.

## String reading and writing

Nebula Graph supports using string types in the following ways:

- Define the data type of [VID](../../1.introduction/3.vid.md) as a fixed-length string.
- Set the variable-length string as the Schema name, including the names of the graph space, tag, edge type, and property.
- Define the data type of the property as a fixed-length or variable-length string.

For example:

- Define the data type of the property as a fixed-length string

    ```ngql
    nebula> CREATE TAG IF NOT EXISTS t1 (p1 FIXED_STRING(10)); 
    ```

- Define the data type of the property as a variable-length string

    ```ngql
    nebula> CREATE TAG IF NOT EXISTS t2 (p2 STRING); 
    ```

When the fixed-length string you try to write exceeds the length limit:

- If the fixed-length string is a property, the writing will succeed, and NebulaGraph will truncate the string and only store the part that meets the length limit.
- If the fixed-length string is a VID, the writing will fail and NebulaGraph will return an error.

## Escape Characters

In strings, the backslash (`\`) serves as an escape character used to denote special characters.

For example, to include a double quote (`"`) within a string, you cannot directly write `"Hello "world""` as it leads to a syntax error. Instead, use the backslash (`\`) to escape the double quote, such as `"Hello \"world\""`.

```ngql
nebula> RETURN "Hello \"world\""
+-----------------+
| "Hello "world"" |
+-----------------+
| "Hello "world"" |
+-----------------+
```

The backslash itself needs to be escaped as it's a special character. For example, to include a backslash in a string, you need to write `"Hello \\ world"`.

```ngql
nebula> RETURN "Hello \\ world"
+-----------------+
| "Hello \ world" |
+-----------------+
| "Hello \ world" |
+-----------------+
```

For more examples of escape characters, see [Escape character examples](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Escape_character#Examples).

## OpenCypher compatibility

There are some tiny differences between openCypher and Cypher, as well as nGQL. The following is what openCypher requires. Single quotes cannot be converted to double quotes.

```ngql
# File: Literals.feature
Feature: Literals

Background:
    Given any graph
 Scenario: Return a single-quoted string
    When executing query:
      """
      RETURN '' AS literal
      """
    Then the result should be, in any order:
      | literal |
      | ''      |    # Note: it should return single-quotes as openCypher required.
    And no side effects
```

While Cypher accepts both single quotes and double quotes as the return results. nGQL follows the Cypher way.

```ngql
nebula > YIELD '' AS quote1, "" AS quote2, "'" AS quote3, '"' AS quote4
+--------+--------+--------+--------+
| quote1 | quote2 | quote3 | quote4 |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+
| ""     | ""     | "'"    | """    |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+
```
