# Get configurations

This document gives some methods to get configurations in Nebula Graph.

!!! note

    You must use ONLY ONE method in one cluster. To avoid errors, we suggest that you get configurations from local.

## Get configurations from local

Add `--local_config=true` to the top of each configuration file (the default path is `/usr/local/nebula/etc/`). Restart all the Nebula Graph services to make your modifications take effect. We suggest that new users use this method.

## Get configuration from Meta Service

To get configuration from Meta Service, set the `--local_config` parameter to `false` or use the default configuration files.

When the services are started for the first time, Nebula Graph reads the configurations from local and then persists them in the Meta Service. Once the Meta Service is persisted, Nebula Graph reads configurations only from the Meta Service, even you restart Nebula Graph.

## FAQ

## How to modify configurations

You can modify Nebula Graph configurations by using these methods:

- Modify configurations by using `UPDATE CONFIG`. For more information see UPDATE CONFIG (doc TODO).
- Modify configurations by configuring the configuration files. For more information, see [Get configuration from local](#get_configuration_from_local).

## What is the configuration priority and how to modify it

The **default** configuration reading precedence is Meta Service > `UPDATE CONFIG`> configuration files.

When `--local_config` is set to `true`, the configuration reading precedence is configuration files > Meta Service.

!!! danger

    Don't use `UPDATE CONFIG` to update configurations when `--local_config` is set to `true`.
