# Solution

On the **Solution** page, the sidebars are different based on roles and privileges. For more information, see [Roles and privileges in Cloud](../4.user-role-description.md).

## Solution Info

Click on the Solution's name on the homepage of Cloud to enter the **Solution Info** page. The Solution Info page consists of the following parts: Basic Info, Instance Info, Price Info, Getting Started. You can view the information on this page in detail.

## Application

Click **Applications** in the sidebar to enter the page of accessory applications(Dashboard/Studio/Explorer). Accessory applications are different based on roles and privileges. For more information, see [Accessory applications](../5.solution/5.1.supporting-application.md).

## Connectivity

Click **Connectivity** in the sidebar to enter the page of Private Link. On this page, you can set up a Private Link, accessing the Nebula Graph database through a Private IP address in the virtual network. For more information, see [Private Link](../5.solution/5.2.connection-configuration-and-use.md).

## Root Management

Click **Root Management** in the sidebar to enter the Root account management page. For more information, see [Role and User Management](../5.solution/5.3.role-and-authority-management.md).

## User Mangement

Click **User Management** in the sidebar to enter the User account management page. For more information, see [Role and User Management](../5.solution/5.3.role-and-authority-management.md).

## Audit Log

Click **Audit Log** in the sidebar to enter the operation log page. You can select the time period according to the operation information such as `Create Solution`, `Start Solution`, `Stop Solution`, and filter out the operator and operation record.

## Settings

Click **Settings** in the sidebar to enter the settings page, and you can `stop solution` or `transfer solution` in this page.
