# Full-text index restrictions

This topic introduces the restrictions for full-text indexes. Please read the restrictions very carefully before using the full-text indexes.
    
!!! caution

    The full-text index feature has been redone in version 3.6.0 and is not compatible with previous versions. If you want to continue to use wildcards, regulars, fuzzy matches, etc., there are 3 ways to do so as follows:

    - Delete the original full-text index, rebuild the full-text index in the new way, and use the [new query syntax](../../3.ngql-guide/15.full-text-index-statements/1.search-with-text-based-index.md).
    - Delete the original full-text index and use the [native index](../../3.ngql-guide/14.native-index-statements/README.md) and [string operators](../../3.ngql-guide/5.operators/7.string.md) directly.
    - Continue to use the previous version of NebulaGraph and its full-text index.

For now, full-text search has the following limitations:

* Currently, full-text search supports `LOOKUP` statements only.

* The full-text index name can contain only numbers, lowercase letters, and underscores.

* The names of full-text indexes within different graph spaces cannot be duplicated.

* The query returns 10 records by default. You can use the `LIMIT` clause to return more records, up to 10,000. You can modify the ElasticSearch parameters to adjust the maximum number of records returned.

* If there is a full-text index on the tag/edge type, the tag/edge type cannot be deleted or modified.

* The type of properties must be `STRING` or `FIXED_STRING`.

* Full-text index can not be applied to search multiple tags/edge types.

* Full-text index can not search properties with value `NULL`.

* Altering Elasticsearch indexes is not supported at this time.

* Modifying the analyzer is not supported. You have to delete the index data and then specify the analyzer when you rebuild the index.

* Make sure that you start the Elasticsearch cluster and Nebula Graph at the same time. If not, the data writing on the Elasticsearch cluster can be incomplete.

* It may take a while for Elasticsearch to create indexes. If Nebula Graph warns no index is found, you can check the status of the indexing task.

* NebulaGraph clusters deployed with K8s do not have native support for the full-text search feature. However, you can manually deploy the feature yourself.
