# Deploy full-text index

Nebula Graph full-text indexes are powered by [Elasticsearch](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elasticsearch).  This means that you can use Elasticsearch full-text query language to retrieve what you want. Full-text indexes are managed through built-in procedures. They can be created only for variable `STRING` and `FIXED_STRING` properties when the listener cluster and the Elasticsearch cluster are deployed.

## Before you start

Before you start using the full-text index, please make sure that you know the [restrictions](../../4.deployment-and-installation/6.deploy-text-based-index/1.text-based-index-restrictions.md).

## Deploy Elasticsearch cluster

To deploy an Elasticsearch cluster, see the [Elasticsearch documentation](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud-on-k8s/current/k8s-deploy-elasticsearch.html).

When the Elasticsearch cluster is started, add the template file for the Nebula Graph full-text index. Take the following sample template for example:

```json
{
 "template": "nebula*",
  "settings": {
    "index": {
      "number_of_shards": 3,
      "number_of_replicas": 1
    }
  },
  "mappings": {
    "properties" : {
            "tag_id" : { "type" : "long" },
            "column_id" : { "type" : "text" },
            "value" :{ "type" : "keyword"}
        }
  }
}
```

Make sure that you specify the following fields in strict accordance with the preceding template format:

```json
"template": "nebula*"
"tag_id" : { "type" : "long" },
"column_id" : { "type" : "text" },
"value" :{ "type" : "keyword"}
```

You can configure the Elasticsearch to meet your business needs.  To customize the Elasticsearch, see [Elasticserch Document](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/settings.html).

## Sign in to the text search clients

```ngql
SIGN IN TEXT SERVICE [(<elastic_ip:port> [,<username>, <password>]), (<elastic_ip:port>), ...]
```

When the Elasticsearch cluster is deployed, use the `SIGN IN` statement to sign in to the Elasticsearch clients. Multiple `elastic_ip:port` pairs are separated with commas. You must use the actual IPs and the port number in the configuration file for the Elasticsearch. For example:

```ngql
nebula> SIGN IN TEXT SERVICE (127.0.0.1:9200);
```

Elasticsearch does not have username or password by default. If you configured a username and password, you need to specify in the `SIGN IN` statement.

## Show text search clients

```ngql
SHOW TEXT SEARCH CLIENTS
```

Use the `SHOW TEXT SEARCH CLIENTS` statement to list the text search clients. For example:

```ngql
nebula> SHOW TEXT SEARCH CLIENTS;
+-------------+------+
| Host        | Port |
+-------------+------+
| "127.0.0.1" | 9200 |
+-------------+------+
| "127.0.0.1" | 9200 |
+-------------+------+
| "127.0.0.1" | 9200 |
+-------------+------+
```

## Sign out to the text search clients

```ngql
SIGN OUT TEXT SERVICE
```

Use the `SIGN OUT TEXT SERVICE` to sign out all the text search clients. For example:

```ngql
nebula> SIGN OUT TEXT SERVICE;
```
