# Deploy Raft Listener for Nebula Storage service

Full-Text index data is written to the Elasticsearch cluster asynchronously. The Raft Listener (hereinafter shortened as Listener) is a separate process that fetches data from the Storage Service and writes them into the Elasticsearch cluster.

## Prerequisites

* You have read and fully understand the [restrictions](../../4.deployment-and-installation/6.deploy-text-based-index/1.text-based-index-restrictions.md) for using Full-Text indexes.

* You have [deployed a Nebula Graph cluster](../deploy-nebula-graph-cluster.md).

* You have prepared at least one extra Storage Server. To use the Full-Text search, you must run one or more Storage Server as the Raft Listener.

## Precautions

* The Storage Service that you want to run as a Listener must have the same or later version with all the other Nebula Graph services in the cluster.

* For now, you can only add Listeners to a graph space once and for all. Trying to add listeners to a graph space that already has a listener will fail. To add multiple listeners, set them [in one statement](#step_3_add_listeners_to_nebula_graph).

## Step 1: Prepare the configuration file for the Listeners

You have to prepare a Listener configuration file on the machine that you want to deploy the Listeners. The file name must be `nebula-storaged-listener.conf`. A [template](https://github.com/vesoft-inc/nebula-storage/blob/master/conf/nebula-storaged-listener.conf.production) is provided for your reference.

> **NOTE:** Use real IP addresses in the configuration file instead of domain names or loopback IP addresses such as `127.0.0.1`.

## Step 2: Start the Listeners

Run the following command to start the Listeners.

```bash
./bin/nebula-storaged --flagfile ${listener_config_path}/nebula-storaged-listener.conf
```

`${listener_config_path}` is the path where you store the Listener configuration file.

## Step 3: Add Listeners to Nebula Graph

[Connect to Nebula Graph](../../2.quick-start/3.connect-to-nebula-graph.md) and run [`USE <space>`](../../3.ngql-guide/9.space-statements/2.use-space.md) to enter the graph space that you want to create Full-Text indexes for. Then run the following statement to add the Listener into Nebula Graph.

> **NOTE:** You must use real IPs for the listeners.

```ngql
ADD LISTENER ELASTICSEARCH <listener_ip:port> [,<listener_ip:port>, ...]
```

Multiple `listener_ip:port` pairs are separated with commas. For example:

```ngql
nebula> ADD LISTENER ELASTICSEARCH 192.168.8.5:46780,192.168.8.6:46780;
```

## Show Listeners

Run the `SHOW LISTENER` statement to list the Listeners.

For example:

```ngql
nebula> SHOW LISTENER;
+--------+-----------------+-----------------------+----------+
| PartId | Type            | Host                  | Status   |
+--------+-----------------+-----------------------+----------+
| 1      | "ELASTICSEARCH" | "[192.168.8.5:46780]" | "ONLINE" |
+--------+-----------------+-----------------------+----------+
| 2      | "ELASTICSEARCH" | "[192.168.8.5:46780]" | "ONLINE" |
+--------+-----------------+-----------------------+----------+
| 3      | "ELASTICSEARCH" | "[192.168.8.5:46780]" | "ONLINE" |
+--------+-----------------+-----------------------+----------+
```

## Remove Listeners

Run the `REMOVE LISTENER ELASTICSEARCH` statement to remove all the Elasticsearch Listeners for a graph space.

For example:

```ngql
nebula> REMOVE LISTENER ELASTICSEARCH;
```

## What to do next

After deploying the [Elasticsearch cluster](2.deploy-es.md) and the Listeners, Full-Text indexes are created automatically on the Elasticsearch cluster. You can do Full-Text search now. For more information, see [Full-Text search](../../3.ngql-guide/15.full-text-index-statements/1.search-with-text-based-index.md).
