# Full-text index restrictions

This document holds the restrictions for full-text indexes. Please read the restrictions very carefully before using the full-text indexes.
For now, full-text search has the following limitations:

- In Elasticsearch, the maximum indexing string length is 256 bytes. If you are using the Enterprise version Elasticsearch, you do not need to worry about this limit. To index data that is longer than 256 bytes, store your data in a reverse order.
- Full-text index can not be applied to more than one property at a time (similar to a composite index).
- The `WHERE` clause in full-text search statement `LOOKUP` does not support logical expressions `AND` and `OR`.
- Full-text index can not be applied to multiple tags search.
- Ideographic language Chinese does not have word delimiters. Therefore, the built-in full-text parser cannot determine where words begin and end in Chinese. Install the [elasticsearch-analysis-ik](https://github.com/medcl/elasticsearch-analysis-ik) to parse Chinese.
- Sorting for the returned results of the full-text search is not supported. Data is returned in the order of data insertion.
- Full-text index can not search the null properties.
- Rebuilding or altering Elasticsearch indexes is not supported at this time.
- Pipe is not supported in the `LOOKUP` statement, excluding the examples in our document.
- Full-text search only works on single terms.
- Full-text indexes are not deleted together with the graph space.
- Make sure that you start the Elasticsearch cluster and Nebula Graph at the same time. If not, the data writing on the Elasticsearch cluster can be incomplete.
- Do not contain `'` in the vertex ID. If not, a error is caused in the Elasticsearch cluster storage.
- It may take a while for Elasticsearch to create indexes. If Nebula Graph warns no index is found, wait for the index to take effect.

<!-- index life circle -->
