# FAQ

## Does NebulaGraph Operator support the v1.x version of NebulaGraph?

No, because the v1.x version of NebulaGraph does not support DNS, and NebulaGraph Operator requires the use of DNS.

## Is cluster stability guaranteed if using local storage?

There is no guarantee. Using local storage means that the Pod is bound to a specific node, and NebulaGraph Operator does not currently support failover in the event of a failure of the bound node.

## How to ensure the stability of a cluster when scaling the cluster?

It is suggested to back up data in advance so that you can roll back data in case of failure.

## Is the replica in the Operator docs the same as the replica in the NebulaGraph core docs?

They are different concepts. A replica in the Operator docs indicates a pod replica in K8s, while a replica in the core docs is a replica of a NebulaGraph storage partition.


## How to view the logs of each service in the NebulaGraph cluster?

To obtain the logs of each cluster service, you need to access the container and view the log files that are stored inside.

Steps to view the logs of each service in the NebulaGraph cluster:

```bash
# To view the name of the pod where the container you want to access is located. 
# Replace <cluster-name> with the name of the cluster.
kubectl get pods -l app.kubernetes.io/cluster=<cluster-name>

# To access the container within the pod, such as the nebula-graphd-0 container.
kubectl exec -it nebula-graphd-0 -- /bin/bash

# To go to /usr/local/nebula/logs directory to view the logs.
cd /usr/local/nebula/logs
```

## How to resolve the `host not found:nebula-<metad|storaged|graphd>-0.nebula.<metad|storaged|graphd>-headless.default.svc.cluster.local` error?

This error is generally caused by a DNS resolution failure, and you need to check whether the cluster domain has been modified. If the cluster domain has been modified, you need to modify the `kubernetesClusterDomain` field in the NebulaGraph Operator configuration file accordingly. The steps for modifying the Operator configuration file are as follows:

1. View the Operator configuration file.

  ```yaml 
  [abby@master ~]$ helm show values nebula-operator/nebula-operator   
  image:
    nebulaOperator:
      image: vesoft/nebula-operator:{{operator.tag}}
      imagePullPolicy: Always
    kubeRBACProxy:
      image: bitnami/kube-rbac-proxy:0.14.2
      imagePullPolicy: Always
    kubeScheduler:
      image: registry.k8s.io/kube-scheduler:v1.24.11
      imagePullPolicy: Always

  imagePullSecrets: []
  kubernetesClusterDomain: ""  # The cluster domain name, and the default is cluster.local.
  ```

2. Modify the value of the `kubernetesClusterDomain` field to the updated cluster domain name.

  ```
  helm upgrade nebula-operator nebula-operator/nebula-operator --namespace=<nebula-operator-system> --version={{operator.release}} --set kubernetesClusterDomain=<cluster-domain>
  ```
  <nebula-operator-system> is the namespace where Operator is located and <cluster-domain> is the updated domain name.