# Deploy full-text index

Nebula Graph full-text indexes are powered by [Elasticsearch](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elasticsearch). This means that you can use Elasticsearch full-text query language to retrieve what you want. Full-text indexes are managed through built-in procedures. They can be created only for variable `STRING` and `FIXED_STRING` properties when the listener cluster and the Elasticsearch cluster are deployed.

## Precaution

Before you start using the full-text index, please make sure that you know the [restrictions](../../4.deployment-and-installation/6.deploy-text-based-index/1.text-based-index-restrictions.md).

## Deploy Elasticsearch cluster

To deploy an Elasticsearch cluster, see [Kubernetes Elasticsearch deployment](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud-on-k8s/current/k8s-deploy-elasticsearch.html) or [Elasticsearch installation](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/7.15/targz.html).

!!! note

    - To support external network access to Elasticsearch, set `network.host` to `0.0.0.0` in `config/elasticsearch.yml`.
    - Only Elasticsearch version 7.x is supported.

You can configure the Elasticsearch to meet your business needs. To customize the Elasticsearch, see [Elasticsearch Document](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/settings.html).

## Sign in to the text search clients

When the Elasticsearch cluster is deployed, use the `SIGN IN` statement to sign in to the Elasticsearch clients. Multiple `elastic_ip:port` pairs are separated with commas. You must use the IPs and the port number in the configuration file for the Elasticsearch.

### Syntax

```ngql
SIGN IN TEXT SERVICE (<elastic_ip:port>, {HTTP | HTTPS} [,"<username>", "<password>"]) [, (<elastic_ip:port>, ...)];
```

### Example

```ngql
nebula> SIGN IN TEXT SERVICE (192.168.8.100:9200, HTTP);
```

!!! note

    Elasticsearch does not have a username or password by default. If you configured a username and password, you need to specify them in the `SIGN IN` statement.

!!! caution

    The Elasticsearch client can only be logged in once, and if there are changes, you need to `SIGN OUT` and then `SIGN IN` again, and the client takes effect globally, and multiple graph spaces share the same Elasticsearch client.

## Show text search clients

The `SHOW TEXT SEARCH CLIENTS` statement can list the text search clients.

### Syntax

```ngql
SHOW TEXT SEARCH CLIENTS;
```

### Example

```ngql
nebula> SHOW TEXT SEARCH CLIENTS;
+-----------------+-----------------+------+
| Type            | Host            | Port |
+-----------------+-----------------+------+
| "ELASTICSEARCH" | "192.168.8.100" | 9200 |
+-----------------+-----------------+------+
```

## Sign out to the text search clients

The `SIGN OUT TEXT SERVICE` statement can sign out all the text search clients.

### Syntax

```ngql
SIGN OUT TEXT SERVICE;
```

### Example

```ngql
nebula> SIGN OUT TEXT SERVICE;
```
