# DELETE VERTEX

By default, the `DELETE VERTEX` statement deletes vertices but the incoming and outgoing edges of the vertices.

!!! compatibility

    - NebulaGraph 2.x deletes vertices and their incoming and outgoing edges.

    - NebulaGraph {{nebula.release}} only deletes the vertices, and does not delete the related outgoing and incoming edges of the vertices. At this time, there will be dangling edges by default.

The `DELETE VERTEX` statement deletes one vertex or multiple vertices at a time. You can use `DELETE VERTEX` together with pipes. For more information about pipe, see [Pipe operator](../5.operators/4.pipe.md).

!!! note

    - `DELETE VERTEX` deletes vertices directly.

    - `DELETE TAG` deletes a tag with the given name on a specified vertex.

## Syntax

```ngql
DELETE VERTEX <vid> [, <vid> ...] [WITH EDGE];
```

- WITH EDGE: deletes vertices and the related incoming and outgoing edges of the vertices.

## Examples

This query deletes the vertex whose ID is "team1".

```ngql
# Delete the vertex whose VID is `team1` but the related incoming and outgoing edges are not deleted.
nebula> DELETE VERTEX "team1";

# Delete the vertex whose VID is `team1` and the related incoming and outgoing edges.
nebula> DELETE VERTEX "team1" WITH EDGE;
```

This query shows that you can use `DELETE VERTEX` together with pipe to delete vertices.

```ngql
nebula> GO FROM "player100" OVER serve WHERE properties(edge).start_year == "2021" YIELD dst(edge) AS id | DELETE VERTEX $-.id;
```

## Process of deleting vertices

Once NebulaGraph deletes the vertices, all edges (incoming and outgoing edges) of the target vertex will become dangling edges. When NebulaGraph deletes the vertices `WITH EDGE`, NebulaGraph traverses the incoming and outgoing edges related to the vertices and deletes them all. Then NebulaGraph deletes the vertices.

!!! caution

    * Atomic deletion is not supported during the entire process for now. Please retry when a failure occurs to avoid partial deletion, which will cause pendent edges.
    * Deleting a supernode takes a lot of time. To avoid connection timeout before the deletion is complete, you can modify the parameter `--storage_client_timeout_ms` in `nebula-graphd.conf` to extend the timeout period.
