# What is NebulaGraph Cloud

NebulaGraph Cloud (Cloud for short) is a product that supports one-click deployment of NebulaGraph on the [Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/) platform. You can create a graph database within minutes, and quickly expand computing and storage.

## Scenarios

You want to use Azure cloud resources to quickly subscribe to the NebulaGraph service and to deploy the NebulaGraph database to the cloud, supporting the use of visualized tools and functions of privilege management.

## Product features

- NebulaGraph Cloud provides a pay-as-you-go and pay-on-demand subscription. You can create or stop NebulaGraph instances at any time according to your own business development, which shows the full flexibility of cloud services.
- Integrated visualized database management tools include NebulaGraph Studio, NebulaGraph Dashboard, and NebulaGraph Explorer. You can use them to import graph datasets, execute nGQL statements, explore graph data, monitor data, etc. Even without any experience in graph database operations, you can quickly become a graph expert. For details, see [Accessory applications](../nebula-cloud/5.solution/5.1.supporting-application.md).
- You can create private endpoints to connect to the cloud database using NebulaGraph Console without having access to the cloud platform. For details, see [Private Link](../nebula-cloud/5.solution/5.2.connection-configuration-and-use.md).
- Access control. You can add database users with different role privileges to the specified graph space to ensure business data security.
- Official support. You can quickly create orders for technical support, consulting problems you have encountered during use.

## Product advantages

- Flexible and efficient: You can quickly build a NebulaGraph database without purchasing physical servers, storage devices, computing, or network components. It only takes 5-10 minutes to prepare a complete environment for use.
- High availability: NebulaGraph clusters use Raft to implement data redundancy backup with multiple server rooms in the same city to ensure the reliability of data, and the high availability of the cloud computing infrastructure and cloud servers.
- Easy to use: NebulaGraph Cloud provides online management of NebulaGraph clusters on the Web, and also provides corresponding visualized tools of NebulaGraph to help users get started quickly.