# Cloud Solution roles

After creating a Solution, you need to confirm the role privileges in the Cloud platform. This topic introduces the role privileges in the Cloud Solution.

## Built-in roles

NebulaGraph Cloud has multiple built-in roles:

- OWNER  
  - Correspond to the resource manager who can subscribe services and manage resource privileges.
  - Configure **Solution**, create and confirm services, and activate subscription.
  - Start and stop services of the **Solution**.
  - Authorizing the **ROOT** user in the database manually.
  - Access the database on the Cloud through a private endpoint.
  - View history logs.
  - Connect to NebulaGraph Dashboard to monitor specified Solution nodes and services.

- ROOT
  - Correspond to the God of the NebulaGraph database, which is set by the OWNER. For privileges of the God role, see [Built-in role privileges](../7.data-security/1.authentication/3.role-list.md).
  - Manage users with the **USER** role in different spaces in the Cloud platform. When authorizing the **USER** role, you need to specify the role privileges of the NebulaGraph database, including **ADMIN**, **DBA**, **GUEST**, and **USER**. For details, see [Built-in role privileges](../7.data-security/1.authentication/3.role-list.md).
  - Access the database on the Cloud through a private endpoint.
  - Connect to visualized tools, including NebulaGraph Dashboard, NebulaGraph Studio, and NebulaGraph Explorer.

- USER
  - The database users are the Azure subscribers invited by the **ROOT** user in the Cloud platform.
  - Correspond to the **ADMIN**, **DBA**, **GUEST**, or **USER** in the NebulaGraph database.
  - Access the database on the Cloud through a private endpoint.
  - Connect to visualized tools, including NebulaGraph Studio and NebulaGraph Explorer.

## Solutions privileges

On the Solution page, users with different roles will see different sidebars. The following describes the privileges of each role. Among them, Y means that this role can view this page, and N means that it cannot.

|Page|OWNER|ROOT|USER|
|:---|:---|:---|:---|
|Solution Info|Y|Y|Y|
|Applications|Y|Y|Y|
|Connectivity|Y|N|N|
|Root Management|Y|N|N|
|User Management|N|Y|N|
|Audit Log|Y|N|N|
|Settings|Y|N|N|
|Subscribe Settings|Y|N|N|
|Billing|Y|N|N|
