# Operating Configuration Requirements

## Production Environment

### Production Environment Deployment Method

* 3 metadata service processes `metad`
* At least 3 storage service processes `storaged`
* At least 3 query engine service processes `graphd`

None of the above processes need to monopolize a single machine. For example, a cluster of 5 machines: A, B, C, D, E can be deployed as follows:

* A: metad, storaged, graphd
* B: metad, storaged, graphd
* C: metad, storaged, graphd
* D: storaged, graphd
* E: storaged, graphd

> Do not deploy the same cluster across two IDCs.
> Each metad process automatically creates and maintains a copy of the metadata, so usually only 3 metead processes are needed. Meanwhile, the number of storaged processes does not affect the copy count of a graph space.

### Server Configuration Requirements (Standard)

Take AWS EC2 c5d.12xlarge as an example:

* CPU: 48 core
* Memory: 96 GB
* Storage: 2 * 900 GB, NVMe SSD
* Linux kernel: 3.9 or higher, check with the command `uname -r`
* glibc: 2.12 or higher, check with the command `ldd --version`

Please refer to the [Kernel Configuration Doc](./7.kernel-config.md) for details.

## Test Environment

* 1 metadata service process `metad`
* At least 1 storage service process `storaged`
* At least 1 query engine service process `graphd`

For example, a cluster with 3 machines: A, B, C can be deployed as follows:

* A: metad, storaged, graphd
* B: storaged, graphd
* C: storaged, graphd

### Server Configuration Requirements (Minimum)

Take AWS EC2 c5d.xlarge as an example:

* CPU: 4 core
* Memory: 8 GB
* Storage: 100 GB, SSD

## Resource Estimation (Three Replicas)

* Storage space (full cluster): number of edges and vertices * average bytes of attributes * 6
* Memory (full cluster): number of edges and vertices * 15 bytes + number of RocksDB instances * (write_buffer_size * max_write_buffer_number) + rocksdb_block_cache, where each directory in the --data_path item in the etc/nebula-storaged.conf file corresponds to a RocksDB instance. You can decrease the memory size of bloomfitler by setting the enable_partitioned_index_filter parameter to true.
* Partitions number of a graph space: number of disks in the cluster * (2 to 10), the better performance of the hard disk, the larger the value.
* Reserve 20% space for memory and hard disk buffer.

## About HDD and Gigabit Networks

**Nebula Graph** is designed for NVMe SSD and 10 Gigabit Network. There is no special adaptation for HDD and gigabit networks. The following are some parameters to be tuned:

* etc/nebula-storage.conf:
  * --raft_rpc_timeout_ms= 5000 to 10000
  * --rocksdb_batch_size= 4096 to 16384
  * --heartbeat_interval_secs = 30 to 60
  * --raft_heartbeat_interval_secs = 30 to 60
* etc/nebula-meta.conf:
  * --heartbeat_interval_secs is the same as etc/nebula-storage.conf
* Spark Writer:

```text
rate: {
      timeout: 5000 to 10000
    }
```

* go-importer:
  * batchSize: 10 to 50
  * concurrency: 1 to 10
  * channelBufferSize: 100 to 500
* The partition value is 2 * cluster HDD number
