# Meta Service Configurations

This document introduces the `metad` configuration file. The default directory is `/usr/local/nebula/etc/`. If you have customized your **Nebula Graph** installation directory, your configuration file path is `$pwd/nebula/etc/`.

* The `*.default` file is used for **debugging** and the **default configuration file** when starting the services
* `*.production` file is the file used for **recommended production**, please remove .production suffix during production

## Basic Configurations

Name                    | Default Value                   | Descriptions
-------------------------| ------------------------ | -----------
`daemonize`              | true                     | Run as daemon thread
`pid_file`               | "pids/nebula-metad.pid" | File to hold the process ID.

## Logging Configurations

Name                   | Default Value                    | Descriptions   | Dynamic Modification |
-------------------------| ------------------------ | ----------- | -------- |
`log_dir`  | logs  (i.e. `/usr/local/nebula/logs`) | Directory to metad log. It is recommended to put it on a different hard disk from data_path. |  |
`minloglevel` | 0 | The corresponding log levels are INFO(DEBUG), WARNING, ERROR and FATAL. Usually specified as 0 in debug, 1 in production. The minloglevel to 4 prints no logs. | Modified with UPDATE CONFIGS syntax. The modification takes effect immediately. |
`v` | 0 | 0-4: when minloglevel is set to 0,  you can further set the severity level of the debug log. The larger the value, the more detailed the log. | Modified with UPDATE CONFIGS syntax. The modification takes effect immediately. |
`logbufsecs` | 0 (in seconds) | Seconds to buffer the log messages | Modified with UPDATE CONFIGS syntax. The modification takes effect immediately. |

## Networking Configurations

Name                   | Default Value            | Descriptions |
------------------------------- | ------------------------ | ----------- |
`meta_server_addrs`     | "127.0.0.1:45500" |  A list of meta server IPs. The format is ip1:port1, ip2:port2, ip3:port3. **Configure 3 machines to form a RAFT group in production.**
`port`                          | 45500                     | RPC daemon listening port.
`reuse_port`                    | true                    | Enable Kernel(>3.9) `SO_REUSEPORT` item
`ws_http_port`                  | 11000         |  HTTP Protocol daemon port. (For internal use)
`ws_h2_port`                    | 11002         |   HTTP/2 Protocol daemon port. (For internal use)
`ws_ip`                         | "127.0.0.1"   |  web service to bind to
`heartbeat_interval_secs`       | 10 seconds    | The same as the parameter in the `nebula-storage.conf` file

> **NOTE**: We recommend you using the actual IP in the `meta_server_addrs` parameter because sometimes `127.0.0.1` will not be parsed correctly.

## Storage Configurations

Name                   | Default Value            | Descriptions |
------------------------------- | ------------------------ | ----------- |
`data_path` | data/meta (i.e. /usr/local/nebula/data/meta/) | Directory for cluster metadata persistence
