# Graph Configurations

This document introduces the `graphd` configuration file. The default directory is `/usr/local/nebula/etc/`. If you have customized your **Nebula Graph** installation directory, your configuration file path is `$pwd/nebula/etc/`.

* The `*.default` file is used for **daily debugging** and the **default configuration file** when starting the services
* `*.production` file is the file used for **recommended production**, please remove .production suffix during production

## Basic Configurations

Name                    | Default Value                   | Default Value
-------------------------| ------------------------ | -----------
`daemonize`              | true                     | Run as daemon thread
`pid_file`               | "pids/nebula-metad.pid" | File to hold the process ID.

## Logging Configurations

Name                   | Default Value                    | Descriptions  | Dynamic Modification |
-------------------------| ------------------------ | ----------- | -------- |
`log_dir`  | logs  (i.e. `/usr/local/nebula/logs`) | Directory to graphd log. It is recommended to put it on a different hard disk from data_path. |  |
`minloglevel` | 0 | The corresponding log levels are INFO(DEBUG), WARNING, ERROR and FATAL. Usually specified as 0 in debug, 1 in production. The minloglevel to 4 prints no logs. | Modified with UPDATE CONFIGS syntax. The modification takes effect immediately. |
`v` | 0 | 0-4: when minloglevel is set to 0,  you can further set the severity level of the debug log. The larger the value, the more detailed the log. | Modified with UPDATE CONFIGS syntax. The modification takes effect immediately. |
`logbufsecs` | 0 (in seconds) | Seconds to buffer the log messages | Modified with UPDATE CONFIGS syntax. The modification takes effect immediately. |
`redirect_stdout`               | true                     | Whether to redirect stdout and stderr to separate files. |  |
`stdout_log_file`               | "stdout.log"              | Destination filename of stdout.
`stderr_log_file`               | "stderr.log"              | Destination filename of stderr.
`slow_op_threshhold_ms`         | 50 (ms)     | default threshold for slow operation | Modified with UPDATE CONFIGS syntax. The modification takes effect immediately. |

For example, change the graphd log level to v=1 with the following command.

```ngql
nebula> UPDATE CONFIGS graph:v=1;
```

## Networking Configurations

Name                   | Default Value                    | Descriptions  | Dynamic Modification |
-------------------------| ------------------------ | ----------- | -------- |
`meta_server_addrs`             | "127.0.0.1:45500" |  List of meta server addresses, the format looks like ip1:port1, ip2:port2, ip3:port3.
`port`                          | 3699                     | RPC daemon's listen port.
`meta_client_retry_times`       | 3 | meta client retry times | Modified with UPDATE CONFIGS syntax. The modification takes effect immediately. |
`heartbeat_interval_secs`       | 3 (seconds) | Seconds between each heartbeat in meta service. | Modified with UPDATE CONFIGS syntax. The modification takes effect immediately.
`client_idle_timeout_secs`      | 0                        | Seconds before we close the idle connections, 0 for infinite.
`session_idle_timeout_secs`     | 0                    | Seconds before we expire the idle sessions, 0 for infinite.
`num_netio_threads`             | 0                        | Number of networking threads, 0 for number of physical CPU cores.
`num_accept_threads`            | 1                        | Number of threads to accept incoming connections.
`num_worker_threads`            | 0                        | Number of threads to execute user queries.
`reuse_port`                    | true                    | Whether to turn on the `SO_REUSEPORT` option.
`listen_backlog`                | 1024                     | Backlog of the listen socket.
`listen_netdev`                 | "any"                    | The network device to listen on.
`ws_http_port`                  | 13000                    | Port to listen on Graph with HTTP protocol is 13000.
`ws_h2_port`                    | 13002                    | Port to listen on Graph with HTTP/2 protocol is 13002.
`ws_ip`                         | "127.0.0.1"              | IP/Hostname to bind to.

## Authorization Configurations

Name                    | Default Value                   | Default Value
-------------------------| ------------------------ | -----------
`enable_authorize` | false | Enable authorize
`auth_type`        | password | password: account password; ldap: LDAP; cloud
