# Date and time types

This document describes the `DATE`, `TIME`, `DATETIME`, and `TIMESTAMP` types. Nebula Graph converts the `DATE`, `TIME`, `DATETIME`, and `TIMESTAMP` values from the current time zone to **UTC** for storage. Nebula Graph converts back from UTC to the current time zone for retrieval.

While inserting time-type property values, except for timestamps, Nebula Graph transforms them to a UTC time according to the time zone specified with the `timezone_name` parameter in the [configuration files](../../5.configurations-and-logs/1.configurations/1.configurations.md). The time-type values returned by nGQL queries are all UTC time.

!!! note

    To change the time zone, modify the `timezone_name` value in the configuration files of all Nebula Graph services.

Combined with `RETURN`, functions `date()`, `time()`, `datetime()` all accept empty parameters to return the current date, time and datetime.

## OpenCypher Compatibility

In nGQL:

- Year, month, day, hour, minute, and second are supported. The millisecond field is displayed in `000`.

- `localdatetime()`, `duration()` are not supported.

- Most string time formats are not supported. The only exception is `2017-03-04T22:30:40`.

## DATE

The `DATE` type is used for values with a date part but no time part. Nebula Graph retrieves and displays `DATE` values in the `YYYY-MM-DD` format. The supported range is `-32768-01-01` to `32767-12-31`.

## TIME

The `TIME` type is used for values with a time part but no date part. Nebula Graph retrieves and displays `TIME` values in `hh:mm:ss:usus` format. The supported range is `0:0:0:0` to `23:59:59:999999`.

## DATETIME

The `DATETIME` type is used for values that contain both date and time parts. Nebula Graph retrieves and displays `DATETIME` values in `YYYY-MM-DD hh:mm:ss:ususus` format. The supported range is `-32768-01-01 00:00:00:00` to `32767-12-31 23:59:59:999999`.

## TIMESTAMP

The `TIMESTAMP` data type is used for values that contain both date and time parts.

- `TIMESTAMP` has a range of `1970-01-01 00:00:01` UTC to `2262-04-11 23:47:16` UTC.
- Timestamp is measured in units of seconds.
- Supported `TIMESTAMP` inserting methods:
  - Call the `now()` function.
  - Input `TIMESTAMP` by using a string. For example: `2019-10-01 10:00:00`.
  - Input `TIMESTAMP` directly, namely the number of seconds from `1970-01-01 00:00:00`.
- The underlying storage data type is: **int64**.

## Examples

Create a tag named date.

```ngql
nebula> CREATE TAG date(p1 date, p2 time, p3 datetime);
```

Insert a vertex named Date1.

```ngql
nebula> INSERT VERTEX date(p1, p2, p3) VALUES "Date1":(date("2017-03-04"), time("23:01:00"), datetime("2017-03-04T22:30:40"));
```

Create a tag named school.

```ngql
nebula> CREATE TAG school(name string , found_time timestamp);
```

Insert a vertex named "stanford" with the foundation date `"1885-10-01T08:00:00"`.

```ngql
nebula> INSERT VERTEX school(name, found_time) VALUES "Stanford":("Stanford", timestamp("1885-10-01T08:00:00"));
```

Insert a vertex named "dut" with the foundation date now.

```ngql
nebula> INSERT VERTEX school(name, found_time) VALUES "dut":("dut", now());
```

```ngql
nebula> WITH time({hour: 12, minute: 31, second: 14}) AS d RETURN d;
+--------------+
| d            |
+--------------+
| 12:31:14.000 |
+--------------+

nebula> WITH date({year: 1984, month: 10, day: 11}) AS x RETURN x + 1;
+------------+
| x          |
+------------+
| 1984-10-12 |
+------------+

nebula> WITH datetime({year: 1984, month: 10, day: 11, hour: 12, minute: 31, second: 14}) AS d \
        RETURN toString(d) AS ts, datetime(toString(d)) == d AS b
+-------------------------+------+
| ts                      | b    |
+-------------------------+------+
| "1984-10-11T12:31:14.0" | true |
+-------------------------+------+
```
