# Scale a NebulaGraph Cluster

This topic describes how to scale the number of service replicas in your NebulaGraph cluster.

## Prerequisites

A cluster is established using NebulaGraph Operator. For details, see [Create a NebulaGraph cluster](../4.1.installation/4.1.1.cluster-install.md).

## Limitations

Scaling the NebulaGraph cluster is only supported by NebulaGraph Operator v1.1.0 and above.

## Scale clusters with `kubectl`

You can scale the NebulaGraph cluster services by editing the `replicas` value in the cluster configuration file.

### Scale out clusters

As an example, let's scale out the Storage service in the NebulaGraph cluster to 5 replicas:

1. View the list of clusters.

  ```bash
  kubectl get nc --all-namespaces
  ```

  Example output:

  ```bash
  NAMESPACE   NAME      READY   GRAPHD-DESIRED   GRAPHD-READY   METAD-DESIRED   METAD-READY   STORAGED-DESIRED   STORAGED-READY   AGE
  nebula      nebula    True    1                1              1               1             3                  3                4d23h
  ...
  ```

2. Change the `spec.storaged.replicas` parameter value from `3` to `5` in the configuration file of the cluster named `nebula`.

  ```bash
  kubectl patch nc nebula -n nebula --type='merge' --patch '{"spec": {"storaged": {"replicas":5}}}'
  ```

  Example output:
  
  ```bash
  nebulacluster.apps.nebula-graph.io/nebula patched
  ```

3. Check the number of Storage service replicas after the scale-out.

  ```bash
  kubectl get pods -l app.kubernetes.io/cluster=nebula
  ```

  Example output:

  ```bash
  NAME                READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
  nebula-graphd-0     1/1     Running   0          2m
  nebula-metad-0      1/1     Running   0          2m
  nebula-storaged-0   1/1     Running   0          2m
  nebula-storaged-1   1/1     Running   0          2m
  nebula-storaged-2   1/1     Running   0          2m
  nebula-storaged-3   1/1     Running   0          5m
  nebula-storaged-4   1/1     Running   0          5m
  ```

### Scale in clusters

Scaling in the cluster follows the same principle as scaling out: just decrease the `replicas` value in the cluster configuration file. For details, see the **Scale out clusters** section above.

If the scale-in operation remains incomplete for a long time, you can go to the console container started through the `spec.console` field and check the status of the scale-in job. If the scale-in Job status is `FAILED`, you can check the Meta service's log to find the cause of the scale-in failure. For more information about Jobs, please see [Job Management](../../../3.ngql-guide/4.job-statements.md).

!!! caution

  - Scaling is supported only for the Graph and Storage services in the NebulaGraph cluster, but not for the Meta service.
  - If the cluster with the zone feature is scaled in, it is necessary to ensure that the remaining number of Storage Pods after scaling in is not less than the number of zones specified by `spec.metad.config.zone_list`. For example, if the number of zones is 3, then the number of Storage Pods after scaling down cannot be less than 3. For more information about zones, please see [Zone](../../4.cluster-administration/4.8.ha-and-balancing/4.8.2.enable-zone.md).


## Scale clusters with `helm`

The cluster can be scaled by modifying the `replicas` values for different services within NebulaGraph.

### Scale out clusters

1. Check the default configuration of the Helm release.

  ```bash
  helm show values nebula-operator/nebula-cluster -n default
  ```

  Result:

  ```bash
  nebula:
  version: v{{nebula.release}}
  ...
  storaged:
    replicas: 2
  ```

2. Scale out the Storage service of the NebulaGraph cluster to 5 replicas with the following command:

  ```bash
  helm upgrade nebula nebula-operator/nebula-cluster \
      --namespace="default" \
      --set nebula.storaged.replicas=5
  ```

### Scale in clusters

The principle of scaling in a cluster is the same as scaling out a cluster. Simply set the `replicas` value of the services in the NebulaGraph cluster to be less than the original.

If the scale-in operation remains incomplete for a long time, you can go to the console container started through `nebula.console` field and check the state of scale-in Jobs. If the scale-in Job status is `FAILED`, you can check the Meta service's log to find out why the scale-in failed. For more information about Jobs, see [Job Management](../../../3.ngql-guide/4.job-statements.md).

!!! caution

  - Scaling is supported only for the Graph and Storage services in the NebulaGraph cluster, but not for the Meta service.
  - If the cluster with the zone feature enabled is scaled in, ensure that the remaining number of Storage Pods after the scaled-in is no less than the number of zones specified by `nebula.metad.config.zone_list`. For instance, if the number of zones is 3, then the number of Storage Pods after the scale-in cannot be less than 3. For more information about zones, see [Enable zones](../../4.cluster-administration/4.8.ha-and-balancing/4.8.2.enable-zone.md).