# NebulaGraphCPP

[NebulaGraphCPP](https://github.com/vesoft-inc/nebula-cpp/tree/{{cpp.branch}}) is a C++ client for connecting to and managing the NebulaGraph database.

## Limitations

You have installed C++ and GCC 4.8 or later versions.

## Compatibility with NebulaGraph

|NebulaGraph version|NebulaGraphCPP version|
|:---|:---|
|{{ nebula.release }}|{{cpp.release}}|
|2.6.x|2.5.0|
|2.5.x|2.5.0|
|2.0.x|2.0.0|

## Install NebulaGraphCPP

This document describes how to install NebulaGraphCPP with the source code.

### Prerequisites

- You have prepared the [correct resources](../4.deployment-and-installation/1.resource-preparations.md).
- You have installed C++ and GCC version is: {10.1.0 | 9.3.0 | 9.2.0 | 9.1.0 | 8.3.0 | 7.5.0 | 7.1.0}. For details, see [the gcc_preset_versions parameter](https://github.com/vesoft-inc/nebula-cpp/blob/{{cpp.tag}}/third-party/install-third-party.sh).
  
### Steps

1. Clone the NebulaGraphCPP source code to the host.

  - (Recommended) To install a specific version of NebulaGraphCPP, use the Git option `--branch` to specify the branch. For example, to install {{ cpp.tag }}, run the following command:

    ```bash
    $ git clone --branch {{cpp.branch}} https://github.com/vesoft-inc/nebula-cpp.git
    ```

  - To install the daily development version, run the following command to download the source code from the `master` branch:

    ```bash
    $ git clone https://github.com/vesoft-inc/nebula-cpp.git
    ```

2. Change the working directory to `nebula-cpp`.

  ```bash
  $ cd nebula-cpp
  ```

3. Create a directory named `build` and change the working directory to it.

  ```bash
  $ mkdir build && cd build
  ```

4. Generate the `makefile` file with CMake.

  !!! Note

        The default installation path is `/usr/local/nebula`. To modify it, add the `-DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=<installation_path>` option while running the following command.

  ```bash
  $ cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release ..
  ```

  !!! note

        If G++ does not support C++ 11, add the option `-DDISABLE_CXX11_ABI=ON`.

5. Compile NebulaGraphCPP.

  To speed up the compiling, use the `-j` option to set a concurrent number `N`. It should be $\min(\text{CPU}core number,\frac{the_memory_size(GB)}{2})$.

  ```bash
  $ make -j{N}
  ```

6. Install NebulaGraphCPP.

  ```bash
  $ sudo make install
  ```

7. Update the dynamic link library.

  ```bash
  $ sudo ldconfig
  ```

## Use NebulaGraphCPP

Compile the CPP file to an executable file, then you can use it. The following steps take using `SessionExample.cpp` for example.

1. Use the [example code](https://github.com/vesoft-inc/nebula-cpp/blob/master/examples/SessionExample.cpp) to create the `SessionExample.cpp` file.

2. Run the following command to compile the file.

  ```bash
  $ LIBRARY_PATH=<library_folder_path>:$LIBRARY_PATH g++ -std=c++11 SessionExample.cpp -I<include_folder_path> -lnebula_graph_client -o session_example
  ```

  - `library_folder_path`: The storage path of the NebulaGraph dynamic libraries. The default path is `/usr/local/nebula/lib64`.

  - `include_folder_path`: The storage of the NebulaGraph header files. The default path is `/usr/local/nebula/include`.

 For example:

  ```bash
  $ LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/local/nebula/lib64:$LIBRARY_PATH g++ -std=c++11 SessionExample.cpp -I/usr/local/nebula/include -lnebula_graph_client -o session_example
  ```

## Core of the example code

This sub-section shows the core of the example code. For all the code, see [SessionExample](https://github.com/vesoft-inc/nebula-cpp/blob/{{cpp.branch}}/examples/SessionExample.cpp).
