# License Center

License Center (LC) provided by Vesoft is an online platform for managing licenses that is accessible through public networks. On the LC platform, your can track all your purchased license information, including details such as license type, number of purchased resources, status of the license, and expiration date. 

On LC, you can bind an [LMID](3.license-manager.md) to generate a license key. The license key can then be loaded in the LM tool installed. And after specifying the LM access address in the software, you can authorize the license which enables you to use the software NebulaGraph Enterprise Edition.

This article introduces the setup, homepage, license details page of LC, and how to bind an LMID on LC.

## Preparations

[You have purchased a Vesoft license](../3.purchase-license.md)

## Set up an LC account

1. Go to the LC account setup page.
  
  For different ways of purchasing a license, the entry to the LC account setup page is different:
  - For purchasing a license on a cloud marketplace, go to the cloud marketplace service page and then click **Click here to set up your account**. 
  - For purchasing a license through Vesoft sales personnel, go to the email sent by Vesoft and then click **Setup License**.

2. Click **Register**.
   
3. Fill in your email address, password, and company name, and check the **I have read and agree to the Terms of use and Privacy policy** box.
   
  !!! caution

      - Make sure the email address is valid, as you will receive a verification email after registration.
      - The password must be between 12 and 30 characters long and contain numbers, letters, and special characters.
  
4. Click **Register** to complete the registration.
5. Open the verification email you received, and click on **Activate** to go to the LC login page.
6. Enter your email address and password, and click **Login** to log in to LC.

## LC homepage

The LC homepage displays the entrance to the cloud marketplace where licenses can be purchased, as well as lists of purchased licenses.

The **LICENSES LIST** section displays the information of all purchased licenses, including LMID (displayed as blank if LMID is not bound) and expiration date. If no licenses have been purchased, the list will be empty.

## License details

In the **LICENSES LIST** section of the LC homepage, click **VIEW DETAILS** to access the license details page. 

### Basic information

- **LMID**：Indicates the ID of your [LM](3.license-manager.md) (If not bound, this field will be empty).
- **License Type**: Currently limited to the purchase of node-based resources.
- **Start At** and **Expire Time**: Indicates the active and expiry dates of the license.

### Purchased resources

In the **Purchased Resources** section, the purchased query and storage node quantities and statuses, as well as the complimentary software names and statuses.

### License key

A license key is an encrypted string containing authorization information and serves as the unique credential for you to obtain access to the NebulaGraph Enterprise Edition database and its associated software features. There are two forms of License keys: online license keys and offline license keys.

- Online license keys
  When binding your LMID, select the **Online** mode to generate an online license key. After you enter the key into your LM, the LM can retrieve the latest license information from LC every 1-2 hours.

- Offline license keys
  When binding your LMID, select the **Offline** mode to generate an offline license key.  Compared to an online license key, after you enter an offline license key into your LM, the LM stores fixed license information. If the license information is updated, a new offline license key must be obtained.

For information about how to bind the ID of your LM, see the following section **Bind LMID**.

### Subscriptions

This section displays the subscription ID of the cloud marketplace where your license is purchased, subscription platform account, product ID, and subscription details.

## Bind LMID

1. On the targeted license details page, click **Bind License Manager ID**.
2. In the pop-up panel, enter the ID of your LM. For how to view LMID, see [LM](3.license-manager.md).
3. Select **Online** or **Offline**, and then click **CONFIRM** to bind the LMID.
   
  - Select **Online** to generate an online license key, so that LM can get the latest license information from LC every 1 ~ 2 hours.
  
  - Select **Offline** to generate an offline license key, which means LM obtains fixed license information. If you need to update the license information, they must obtain a new offline license key.

!!! caution

    Each license can only be bound to one LMID, and unbinding LMIDs is not supported.



