# NebulaGraph CPP

[NebulaGraph CPP](https://github.com/vesoft-inc/nebula-cpp/tree/{{cpp.branch}}) is a C++ client for connecting to and managing the NebulaGraph database.

## Limitations

You have installed C++ and GCC 4.8 or later versions.

## Compatibility with NebulaGraph

See [github](https://github.com/vesoft-inc/nebula-cpp/tree/{{cpp.branch}}).

## Install NebulaGraph CPP

This document describes how to install NebulaGraph CPP with the source code.

### Prerequisites

- You have prepared the [correct resources](../4.deployment-and-installation/1.resource-preparations.md).
- You have installed C++ and GCC version is: {10.1.0 | 9.3.0 | 9.2.0 | 9.1.0 | 8.3.0 | 7.5.0 | 7.1.0}. For details, see [the gcc_preset_versions parameter](https://github.com/vesoft-inc/nebula-cpp/blob/{{cpp.tag}}/third-party/install-third-party.sh).
  
### Steps

1. Clone the NebulaGraph CPP source code to the host.

  - (Recommended) To install a specific version of NebulaGraph CPP, use the Git option `--branch` to specify the branch. For example, to install {{ cpp.tag }}, run the following command:

    ```bash
    $ git clone --branch {{cpp.branch}} https://github.com/vesoft-inc/nebula-cpp.git
    ```

  - To install the daily development version, run the following command to download the source code from the `master` branch:

    ```bash
    $ git clone https://github.com/vesoft-inc/nebula-cpp.git
    ```

2. Change the working directory to `nebula-cpp`.

  ```bash
  $ cd nebula-cpp
  ```

3. Create a directory named `build` and change the working directory to it.

  ```bash
  $ mkdir build && cd build
  ```

4. Generate the `makefile` file with CMake.

  !!! note

        The default installation path is `/usr/local/nebula`. To modify it, add the `-DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=<installation_path>` option while running the following command.

  ```bash
  $ cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release ..
  ```

  !!! note

        If G++ does not support C++ 11, add the option `-DDISABLE_CXX11_ABI=ON`.

5. Compile NebulaGraph CPP.

  To speed up the compiling, use the `-j` option to set a concurrent number `N`. It should be $\min(\text{CPU core number},\frac{\text{the memory size(GB)}}{2})$.

  ```bash
  $ make -j{N}
  ```

6. Install NebulaGraph CPP.

  ```bash
  $ sudo make install
  ```

7. Update the dynamic link library.

  ```bash
  $ sudo ldconfig
  ```

## Use NebulaGraph CPP

Compile the CPP file to an executable file, then you can use it. The following steps take using `SessionExample.cpp` for example.

1. Use the [example code](https://github.com/vesoft-inc/nebula-cpp/blob/master/examples/SessionExample.cpp) to create the `SessionExample.cpp` file.

2. Run the following command to compile the file.

  ```bash
  $ LIBRARY_PATH=<library_folder_path>:$LIBRARY_PATH g++ -std=c++11 SessionExample.cpp -I<include_folder_path> -lnebula_graph_client -o session_example
  ```

  - `library_folder_path`: The storage path of the NebulaGraph dynamic libraries. The default path is `/usr/local/nebula/lib64`.

  - `include_folder_path`: The storage of the NebulaGraph header files. The default path is `/usr/local/nebula/include`.

 For example:

  ```bash
  $ LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/local/nebula/lib64:$LIBRARY_PATH g++ -std=c++11 SessionExample.cpp -I/usr/local/nebula/include -lnebula_graph_client -o session_example
  ```

## Core of the example code

Nebula CPP clients provide both Session Pool and Connection Pool methods to connect to NebulaGraph. Using the Connection Pool method requires users to manage session instances by themselves.


- Session Pool

  For more details about all the code, see [SessionPoolExample](https://github.com/vesoft-inc/nebula-cpp/blob/{{cpp.branch}}/examples/SessionPoolExample.cpp).

- Connection Pool

  For more details about all the code, see [SessionExample](https://github.com/vesoft-inc/nebula-cpp/blob/{{cpp.branch}}/examples/SessionExample.cpp).
