# SSL encryption

Nebula Graph supports transmission with SSL encryption between the client, Graph service, Meta service, and Storage service. This topic describes how to enable SSL encryption.

## Precaution

Enabling SSL encryption will slightly affect performance.

## Parameters

| Parameter | Default value | Description |
| ------------------ | ------- | ------------------------------|
| `cert_path`        | -       | The path to the pem certification. |
| `key_path`         | -       | The path to the key certification. |
| `password_path`    | -       | The path to the password file certification. |
| `ca_path`          | -       | The path to the trusted CA file. |
| `enable_ssl`       | `false`   | Whether to enable SSL encryption. |
| `enable_graph_ssl` | `false`   | Whether to enable SSL encryption in Graph service only. |
| `enable_meta_ssl`  | `false`   | Whether to enable SSL encryption in Meta service only. |

## Certificate modes

To use SSL encryption, SSL certificates are required. Nebula Graph supports two certificate modes.

- Self-signed certificate mode

  In this mode, users need to make the signed certificate by themselves and set `cert_path`, `key_path`, and `password_path` in the corresponding file according to encryption policies.

- CA-signed certificate mode

  In this mode, users need to apply for the signed certificate from a certificate authority and set `cert_path`, `key_path`, and `password_path` in the corresponding file according to encryption policies.

## Encryption policies

Nebula Graph supports three encryption policies. For details, see [Usage explanation](https://github.com/vesoft-inc/nebula/blob/a67d166b284cae1b534bf8d19c936ee38bf12e29/docs/rfcs/0001-ssl-transportation.md#usage-explanation).

- Encrypt the data transmission between the client, Graph service, Meta service, and Storage service.

  The values of `nebula-graphd.conf`, `nebula-metad.conf`, and `nebula-storaged.conf` need to be modified. And `enable_ssl` should be set to `true`.

- Encrypt the data transmission between the client and Graph service.
  
  This policy applies to the case that the clusters are set in the same room. Only the port of the Graph service is open to the outside because other services can communicate over the internal network without encryption. The value of `nebula-graphd.conf` needs to be modified. And `enable_graph_ssl` should be set to `true`.

- Encrypt the data transmission related to the Meta service in clusters.
  
  This policy applies to transporting classified information to the Meta service. The values of `nebula-graphd.conf`, `nebula-metad.conf`, and `nebula-storaged.conf` need to be modified. And `enable_meta_ssl` should be set to `true`.

## Steps

1. Ensure the certificate mode and the encryption policy.

2. Add the certificate configuration and the policy configuration in corresponding files.

  For example, the three configuration files need to be set as follows when using a self-signed certificate and encrypt data transmission between the client, Graph service, Meta service, and Storage service.

  ```bash
  --cert_path=xxxxxx
  --key_path=xxxxx
  --password_path=xxxxxx
  --enable_ssl=true
  ```

3. Set the SSL and the trusted CA in clients. For code examples, see [nebula-test-run.py](https://github.com/vesoft-inc/nebula/blob/{{nebula.branch}}/tests/nebula-test-run.py).
