# Install {{br_ent.name}}

The {{br_ent.name}} tool is used to back up and restore NebulaGraph Enterprise Edition data. This topic describes how to install this tool.

## Notes

To use the {{br_ent.name}} tool, you need to install the NebulaGraph Agent plug-in, which is taken as a daemon for each machine in the cluster that starts and stops the NebulaGraph service, and uploads and downloads backup files. The {{br_ent.name}} tool and the Agent plug-in are installed as described below.

## Version compatibility

|{{nebula.name}}|{{br_ent.name}}|Agent |
|:---|:---|:---|
|3.6.x ~ 3.7.x|3.6.x ~ 3.7.0|3.6.x ~ 3.7.0|
|3.5.x|3.5.1|3.4.0|
|3.4.1|3.4.0 ~ 3.4.1|3.4.0|

## Install {{br_ent.name}}

The {{br_ent.name}} is a command-line interface (CLI) tool that helps to back up NebulaGraph data or restore the data through backup files.

Follow these steps:

1. [Contact us](https://www.nebula-graph.io/contact) to obtain the {{br_ent.name}} installation package.


2. Run `sudo rpm -i <rpm>` to install the RPM package.
  <!-- Make sure the correctness of steps and package name. -->
  For example, install {{br_ent.name}} with the following command, and the default installation path is `/usr/local/br-ent/`:

  `sudo rpm -i nebula-br-ent-<version>.x86_64.rpm`

In the {{br_ent.name}} installation directory, run `./br version` to view version information. The following information is returned:

```
[br-ent]$ ./br version
Nebula Backup And Restore Utility Tool,V-{{br_ent.release}}
```

## Install Agent 

NebulaGraph Agent is installed as a binary file in each machine and serves the {{br_ent.name}} tool with the RPC protocol.

In **each machine**, follow these steps:

1. Install Agent.

  ```
  wget https://github.com/vesoft-inc/nebula-agent/releases/download/v{{agent.release}}/agent-{{agent.release}}-linux-amd64
  ```

2. Rename the Agent file to `agent`.

  ```
  sudo mv agent-{{agent.release}}-linux-amd64 agent
  ```

3. Add execute permission to Agent. 
  
  ```
  sudo chmod +x agent
  ```

4. Start Agent.
  
  !!! note

        Before starting Agent, make sure that the Meta service has been started and Agent has read and write access to the corresponding NebulaGraph cluster directory and backup directory. 

  ```
  sudo nohup ./agent --agent="192.168.8.xxx:8888" --meta="192.168.8.xxx:9559" --ratelimit=1048576 > nebula_agent.log 2>&1 &
  ```

  - `--agent`: The IP address and port number of Agent.
  - `--meta`: The IP address and access port of any Meta service in the cluster.
  - `--ratelimit`: (Optional) Limits the speed of file uploads and downloads to prevent bandwidth from being filled up and making other services unavailable. Unit: Bytes.
  - `> nebula_agent.log 2>&1 &`: Optional. Outputs the Agent log to the `nebula_agent.log` file.

  
  If [mTLS authentication encryption](../../7.data-security/4.ssl.md) is enabled in the cluster, while executing the command to start the Agent, you need to add options such as `--enable_ssl`, `--ca_path`, `--cert_path`, `--key_path`, and `--insecure_skip_verify`.

  For example:

  ```
  sudo nohup ./agent --agent="192.168.8.xxx:8888" --meta="192.168.8.xxx:9559" --ratelimit=1048576 --enable_ssl --ca_path=<ca_cert_path> --cert_path=<client_cert_path> --key_path=<client_key_path> --insecure_skip_verify=true > nebula_agent.log 2>&1 &
  ```

  - `--enable_ssl`: Enables mTLS (mutual Transport Layer Security) for connections to NebulaGraph for encrypted bidirectional authentication.
  - `--ca_path`: Specifies the storage path for the Certificate Authority (CA) root certificate. The default path is `/usr/local/certs/ca.crt`.
  - `--cert_path`: Specifies the storage path for the public key certificate. The default path is `/usr/local/certs/client.crt`.
  - `--key_path`: Specifies the storage path for the private key certificate. The default path is `/usr/local/certs/client.key`.
  - `--insecure_skip_verify`: Optional. Specifies whether to skip verification of the server's certificate chain and hostname. The default value is `false`, which means it verifies the server-provided certificate chain and hostname. If set to `true`, it skips verification.
  
  Alternatively, you can configure environment variables `CA_CERT_PATH`, `CLIENT_CERT_PATH`, and `CLIENT_KEY_PATH` to specify the storage paths of the CA root certificate, public key certificate, and private key certificate respectively. After these environment variables are configured, you do not need to set the `--ca_path`, `--cert_path`, and `--key_path` options in the preceding example because the environment variables override the corresponding options.

5. Log into NebulaGraph and then run the following command to view the status of Agent.
  
  ```
  nebula> SHOW HOSTS AGENT;
  +-----------------+------+----------+---------+--------------+---------+
  | Host            | Port | Status   | Role    | Git Info Sha | Version |
  +-----------------+------+----------+---------+--------------+---------+
  | "192.168.8.129" | 8888 | "ONLINE" | "AGENT" | "96646b8"    |         |
  +-----------------+------+----------+---------+--------------+---------+  
  ```
