# Kernel configurations

This topic introduces the Kernel configurations in Nebula Graph.

## Resource control

You may run the `ulimit` command to control the resource threshold. However, the changes made only take effect for the current session or sub-process. To make permanent changes, edit file `/etc/security/limits.conf`. The configuration is as follows:

```bash
# <domain>     <type>      <item>          <value>
*              soft         core           unlimited    
*              hard         core           unlimited   
*              soft         nofile          130000   
*              hard         nofile          130000
```

!!! note

    The configuration modification takes effect for new sessions.

The parameter descriptions are as follows.

|Parameter|Description|
|:--|:--|
|`domain`| Control Domain. This parameter can be a user name, a user group name (starting with `@`), or `*` to indicate all users.|
|`type`| Control type. This parameter can be `soft` or `hard`. `soft` indicates a soft threshold (the default threshold) for the resource and `hard` indicates a maximum value that can be set by the user. The `ulimit` command can be used to increase `soft`, but not to exceed `hard`.|
|`item`| Resource types. For example, `core` limits the size of the core dump file, and `nofile` limits the maximum number of file descriptors a process can open.|
|`value`| Resource limit value. This parameter can be a number, or `unlimited` to indicate that there is no limit.|

You can run `man limits.conf` for more helpful information.

## Memory

### vm.swappiness

`vm.swappiness` specifies the percentage of the available memory before starting swap. The greater the value, the more likely the swap occurs. We recommend that you set it to 0. When set to 0, the page cache is removed first. Note that when `vm.swappiness` is 0, it does not mean that there is no swap.

### vm.min_free_kbytes

`vm.min_free_kbytes` specifies the minimum number of kilobytes available kept by Linux VM. If you have a large system memory, we recommend that you increase this value. For example, if your physical memory 128GB, set it to 5GB. If the value is not big enough, the system cannot apply for enough continuous physical memory.

### vm.max_map_count

`vm.max_map_count` limits the maximum number of vma (virtual memory area) for a process. The default value is `65530`. It is enough for most applications. If your memory application fails because the memory consumption is large, increase the `vm.max_map_count` value.

### vm.dirty_*

These values control the dirty data cache for the system. For write-intensive scenarios, you can make adjustments based on your needs (throughput priority or delay priority). We recommend that you use the system default value.

### Transparent huge page

For better delay performance, you must run the following commands to disable the transparent huge pages (THP).

```bash
root# echo never > /sys/kernel/mm/transparent_hugepage/enabled
root# echo never > /sys/kernel/mm/transparent_hugepage/defrag
root# swapoff -a && swapon -a
```

To prevent THP from being enabled again after the system restarts, you can modify the GRUB configuration file or `/etc/rc.local` to disable THP automatically upon system startup.

## Networking

### net.ipv4.tcp_slow_start_after_idle

The default value of `net.ipv4.tcp_slow_start_after_idle` is `1`. If set, the congestion window is timed out after an idle period. We recommend that you set it to `0`, especially for long fat scenarios (high latency and large bandwidth).

### net.core.somaxconn

`net.core.somaxconn` specifies the maximum number of connection queues listened by the socket. The default value is `128`. For scenarios with a large number of burst connections, we recommend that you set it to greater than `1024`.

### net.ipv4.tcp_max_syn_backlog

`net.ipv4.tcp_max_syn_backlog` specifies the maximum number of TCP connections in the SYN_RECV (semi-connected) state. The setting rule for this parameter is the same as that of `net.core.somaxconn`.

### net.core.netdev_max_backlog

`net.core.netdev_max_backlog` specifies the maximum number of packets. The default value is `1000`. We recommend that you increase it to greater than `10,000`, especially for 10G network adapters.

### net.ipv4.tcp_keepalive_*

These values keep parameters alive for TCP connections. For applications that use a 4-layer transparent load balancer, if the idle connection is disconnected unexpectedly, decrease the values of `tcp_keepalive_time` and `tcp_keepalive_intvl`.

### net.ipv4.tcp_rmem/wmem

`net.ipv4.tcp_wmem/rmem` specifies the minimum, default, and maximum size of the buffer pool sent/received by the TCP socket. For long fat links, we recommend that you increase the default value to `bandwidth (GB) * RTT (ms)`.

### scheduler

For SSD devices, we recommend that you set `scheduler` to `noop` or `none`. The path is `/sys/block/DEV_NAME/queue/scheduler`.

## Other parameters

### kernel.core_pattern

we recommend that you set it to `core` and set `kernel.core_uses_pid` to `1`.

## Modify parameters

### sysctl

- `sysctl <conf_name>`
  
  Checks the current parameter value.

- `sysctl -w <conf_name>=<value>`

  Modifies the parameter value. The modification takes effect immediately. The original value is restored after restarting.

- `sysctl -p [<file_path>]`  
  
  Loads Linux parameter values ​​from the specified configuration file. The default path is `/etc/sysctl.conf`.

### prlimit

The `prlimit` command gets and sets process resource limits. You can modify the hard threshold by using it and the `sudo` command. For example, `prlimit --nofile = 130000 --pid = $$` adjusts the maximum number of open files permitted by the current process to `14000`. And the modification takes effect immediately. Note that this command is only available in RedHat 7u or higher versions.
