# Purchase a NebulaGraph license 

To utilize the features of the NebulaGraph database and associated software, you must obtain a NebulaGraph license. The license can be procured either via the cloud marketplace or by directly [contacting](https://www.nebula-graph.io/contact) Vesoft sales.

Currently, AWS Marketplace is the only cloud marketplace from which a license can be obtained. This article assists you in purchasing a NebulaGraph license on the AWS Marketplace.

## Preparations

You have registered an [AWS Marketplace](https://portal.aws.amazon.com/billing/signup#/start/email) account and logged in.

## Steps

!!! note

    Before purchasing a license on the AWS Marketplace, it is recommended that you [contact](https://www.nebula-graph.io/contact) Vesoft sales for detailed information about the license.

1. Open the AWS Marketplace [NebulaGraph Enterprise (by Node)](https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/prodview-kvpxjh5b4dfno) service page.
2. Click **View purchase options** to enter the license purchase contract signing page.
3. Configure the contract items, which include the license validity period, auto-renewal setting, and the number of nodes to be purchased.

  - **How long do you want your contract to run**: Choose the validity period for the license, either 1 month or 1 year.
  - **Renewal Settings**: Whether to automatically renew the license after its validity period.
    - **Yes**: The license will be automatically renewed after its validity period. 
    - **No**: The license will not be automatically renewed after its validity period.
  - **Contract Options**: Select the number of resources to purchase, currently supporting the purchase of query nodes and storage nodes.

4. Click **Create contract**.
5. In the pop-up panel, confirm purchase information and click **Pay now**.
6. Click **Set up your account** for LC registration and to start managing the license. For details, see [set up an LC account](2.license-management-suite/2.license-center.md#set-up-an-lc-account). 
   
  You can view the license information on LC.

  !!! note

        Once the registration process is finished, you will receive an email from Vesoft within one business day containing the complete NebulaGraph packages, which include not only the database, but also other software such as [LM](2.license-management-suite/3.license-manager.md), NebulaGraph Explorer, and more.

<!-- Not release this section for now 
## Resource pricing

License purchases are now limited to node count. This means that you can select and buy query and storage nodes based on their specific business requirements. The license can be purchased for one month or one year.

The price of each resource is as follows:


| Per node| 1 Month | 1 Year |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Query node | 2,000 USD | 24,000 USD |
| Storage node | 4,000 USD | 48,000 USD |

After purchasing the license, you can obtain the usage rights of the NebulaGraph enterprise edition database, as well as its associated software, including NebulaGraph Explorer, NebulaGraph Dashboard, and NebulaGraph Analytics. -->

## Next to do

After purchasing a license, you must generate a [license key](2.license-management-suite/2.license-center.md#license_key) and then load it into the [LM](2.license-management-suite/3.license-manager.md) service. Following this, the NebulaGraph database and its associated software will verify the validity of the license key through the LM service at startup. If the license key is valid, the NebulaGraph database and associated software can operate normally. The following steps describe how to generate and load a license key:

- [Install LM](2.license-management-suite/3.license-manager.md)
- [Generate the license key](2.license-management-suite/2.license-center.md#bind_lmid_to_generate_a_license_key)
- [Load the license key](2.license-management-suite/3.license-manager.md#load_a_license_key)

For more information about how to use a license, see [Licensing process](1.license-overview.md#licensing_process).

