# Generate and load a license key

After purchasing a license, you must generate a [license key](2.license-management-suite/2.license-center.md) and then load it into the [LM](2.license-management-suite/3.license-manager.md) service. Following this, the NebulaGraph database and its associated software will verify the validity of the license key through the LM service at startup. If the license key is valid, the NebulaGraph database and associated software can operate normally. This article introduces how to generate and load a license key.

## Preparations

- [You have purchased a license](3.purchase-license.md)
- [You have registered an LC account and logged in](2.license-management-suite/2.license-center.md)
- [You have installed LM](2.license-management-suite/3.license-manager.md)

## Generate a license key

1. Go to the [LC](2.license-management-suite/2.license-center.md) platform.
2. In the **LICENSE LIST** section, click the target license card.
3. On the **License Info** page, find the **Basic Info** section, and click **Bind License Manager ID**.
4. Bind the ID of your License Manager (LMID). For details, see [Bind LMID](2.license-management-suite/2.license-center.md#bind-lmid-on-the-license-information-page).

  !!! note 

        You can choose a license key type based on your LM accessibility. 

      - If your LM is accessible from the internet, you can select either **Online** or **Offline** mode. The **Online** mode is recommended, as it generates an online license key.
      - If your LM is not accessible from the internet, then Offline mode is the only option available for generating an offline license key, as it can't reach out to the license server to validate the key itself.
  
5. In the **License Key** section, you can see the corresponding license key information.

## Load a license key

1. Navigate to the directory where your LM is located (default path is `/usr/local/nebula-license-manager`).

  ```bash
  cd /usr/local/nebula-license-manager
  ```

2. Run the following command to load the license key.

  ```bash
  ./nebula-license-manager-cli license load --key <license-key>
  ```

  `<license-key>`: Specifies the license key string, such as `MSY2-LGQ6O-69521-xxx`.

3. After successfully loading the license key, run the following command to view the license information.

  ```bash
  ./nebula-license-manager-cli license info
  ```

  The license information includes license status, license key, type, validity period, and number of nodes purchased. For more information, see [View license information](2.license-management-suite/3.license-manager.md).

## Next to do

After loading the license key in LM, you need to configure the LM address in the NebulaGraph database and associated software. Only then can you use the NebulaGraph database and associated software features normally. For details, see [Configure LM](2.license-management-suite/3.license-manager.md).
