# Manage licenses

This article provides instructions on managing licenses, including license renewal, license node expansion, and viewing online and offline license keys.

## Preparations

- [You have generated a license key on LC](2.license-management-suite/2.license-center.md#bind_lmid_to_generate_a_license_key)
- [You have loaded the license key into the LM](2.license-management-suite/3.license-manager.md#load_a_license_key)

## Renew licenses

- For licenses purchased through Vesoft's sales team, you need to contact the sales team to renew them.
- For licenses purchased on the cloud marketplace platform, follow these steps for renewal:
  1. On the [LC](2.license-management-suite/2.license-center.md) homepage, navigate to the **LICENSES LIST** section, and find the target license card.
  2. Click **RENEW** to enter the cloud marketplace renewal page.
  3. Click **Modify renewal terms** and select the renewal period, which can be either 1 month or 1 year.
  4. Click **Modify renewal**.

  After a successful renewal, if the license key loaded in the [LM](2.license-management-suite/3.license-manager.md) is online, your LM will automatically synchronize the license information. If it's offline, you need to copy the new offline license key from LC, and then reload this new offline license key into your LM.

## Expand license node count

- For licenses purchased through sales team, you need to contact the sales team to increase the number of nodes.
- For licenses purchased on the cloud marketplace platform,  follow these steps to expand the license node count:
  1. In the **LICENSES LIST** section of the LC homepage, find the target license card.
  2. Click **RENEW** to enter the cloud marketplace renewal page.
  3. Click **Upgrade current contract** and select the number of nodes to be added.
  4. Click **Modify current contract**.

  After successfully expanding the node count, if the license key loaded in the LM is online, the LM will automatically synchronize the license information. If it's an offline license key, you need to copy the new offline license key from LC, and then reload this new offline license key into the LM.

## View online and offline license keys

1. In the **LICENSES LIST** section of the LC homepage, find the target license card.
2. Click **VIEW DETAILS** to enter the license information page.
3. In the **Basic Info** section, click **EDIT LM ID**.
4. In the pop-up panel, select **Online** or **Offline**, and click **CONFIRM**.
5. In the **LICENSES KEY** section, view the corresponding license key in the selected mode.
