# What is NebulaGraphOperator

## Concept of NebulaGraphOperator

NebulaGraphOperator is a tool to automate the deployment, operation, and maintenance of [NebulaGraph](https://github.com/vesoft-inc/nebula) clusters on [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io). Building upon the excellent scalability mechanism of Kubernetes, NebulaGraph introduced its operation and maintenance knowledge into the Kubernetes system, which makes NebulaGraph a real [cloud-native graph database](https://www.nebula-cloud.io/).

## How it works

For resource types that do not exist within Kubernetes, you can register them by adding custom API objects. The common way is to use the [CustomResourceDefinition](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/#customresourcedefinitions).

NebulaGraphOperator abstracts the deployment management of NebulaGraph clusters as a CRD. By combining multiple built-in API objects including StatefulSet, Service, and ConfigMap, the routine management and maintenance of a NebulaGraph cluster are coded as a control loop in the Kubernetes system. When a CR instance is submitted, NebulaGraphOperator drives database clusters to the final state according to the control process.

## Features of NebulaGraphOperator

The following features are already available in NebulaGraphOperator:

- **Deploy and uninstall clusters**: NebulaGraphOperator simplifies the process of deploying and uninstalling clusters for users. NebulaGraphOperator allows you to quickly create, update, or delete a NebulaGraph cluster by simply providing the corresponding CR file. For more information, see [Deploy NebulaGraph Clusters with Kubectl](3.deploy-nebula-graph-cluster/3.1create-cluster-with-kubectl.md) or [Deploy NebulaGraph Clusters with Helm](3.deploy-nebula-graph-cluster/3.2create-cluster-with-helm.md).
  
- **Scale clusters**: NebulaGraphOperator calls NebulaGraph's native scaling interfaces in a control loop to implement the scaling logic. You can simply perform scaling operations with YAML configurations and ensure the stability of data. For more information, see [Scale clusters with Kubectl](3.deploy-nebula-graph-cluster/3.1create-cluster-with-kubectl.md) or [Scale clusters with Helm](3.deploy-nebula-graph-cluster/3.2create-cluster-with-helm.md).
  
- **Cluster Upgrade**: NebulaGraphOperator supports cluster upgrading from version {{operator.upgrade_from}} to version {{operator.upgrade_to}}.
  
- **Self-Healing**: NebulaGraphOperator calls interfaces provided by NebulaGraph clusters to dynamically sense cluster service status. Once an exception is detected, NebulaGraphOperator performs fault tolerance. For more information, see [Self-Healing](5.operator-failover.md).
  
- **Balance Scheduling**: Based on the scheduler extension interface, the scheduler provided by NebulaGraphOperator evenly distributes Pods in a NebulaGraph cluster across all nodes.

## Limitations

### Version limitations

NebulaGraphOperator does not support the v1.x version of NebulaGraph. NebulaGraphOperator version and the corresponding NebulaGraph version are as follows:

| NebulaGraphOperator version | NebulaGraph version |
| ------------------- | ---------------- |
| 1.2.0| 3.0.0 ~ 3.1.x |
| 1.0.0| 3.0.0 ~ 3.1.x |
| 0.9.0| 2.5.x ~ 2.6.x |
|0.8.0|2.5.x|

!!! Compatibility "Legacy version compatibility"

    - The 1.x version NebulaGraphOperator is not compatible with NebulaGraph of version below v3.x.
    - Starting from NebulaGraphOperator 0.9.0, logs and data are stored separately. Using NebulaGraphOperator 0.9.0 or later versions to manage a NebulaGraph 2.5.x cluster created with Operator 0.8.0 can cause compatibility issues. You can backup the data of the NebulaGraph 2.5.x cluster and then create a 2.6.x cluster with Operator 0.9.0.

### Feature limitations

The NebulaGraphOperator scaling feature is only available for the Enterprise Edition of NebulaGraph clusters and does not support scaling the Community Edition version of NebulaGraph clusters.

## Release note

[Release](https://github.com/vesoft-inc/nebula-operator/releases/tag/{{operator.tag}})