# Built-in string functions

Nebula Graph supports the following built-in string functions:

> **NOTE:** Like SQL, the character index (location) for nGQL starts from `1`. However, the character index (i.e. location in a list) for the C language starts from `0`.

Function| Description |
----  |  ----|
int strcasecmp(string a, string b) | Compare strings without case sensitivity, when a = b, return 0, when a > b returned value is greater than 0, otherwise less than 0. |
string lower(string a) | Return the argument in lowercase. |
string upper(string a) | Return the argument in uppercase. |
int length(string a) | Return the length (int) of given string in bytes. |
string trim(string a) | Remove leading and trailing spaces. |
string ltrim(string a) | Remove leading spaces. |
string rtrim(string a) | Remove trailing spaces. |
string left(string a, int count) | Return the substring in [1, count], if length a is less than count, return a. |
string right(string a, int count) | Return the substring in [size - count + 1, size], if length a is less than count, return a. |
string lpad(string a, int size, string letters) | Left-pads a string with another string to a certain length.|
string rpad(string a, int size, string letters)| Reft-pads a string with another string to a certain length.  |
string substr(string a, int pos, int count) | Extract a substring from a string, starting at the specified position, extract the specified length characters. |
int hash(string a) | Encode the data into an integer value. |

**Explanations** on the returns of function `substr`:

- If pos is 0, return an empty string.
- If the absolute value of pos is greater than the string, return an empty string.
- If pos is greater than 0, return substring in [pos, pos + count).
- If pos is less than 0, and set position N as length(a) + pos + 1, return substring in [N, N + count).
- If count is greater than length(a), return the whole string.
