# What is Nebula Graph

Nebula Graph is an open-source, distributed, easily scalable, and native graph database. It is capable of hosting graphs with billions of vertices and trillions of edges, and serve queries with millisecond-latency.

## What is a graph database

A graph database, such as Nebula Graph, is a storage engine that specializes in storing and retrieving vast networks of information. It efficiently stores data as vertices (nodes) and edges (relationships) and allows high-performance retrieval and querying of those structures. Properties can be added to both vertices and edges. Vertices can have zero to multiple tags, and edges are always directed and typed.

[TODO: Add a png of a simple graph.]

Graph databases are well suited for storing most kinds of data models abstracted from reality. In almost all fields, there are certain things connected to other things. In most other modeling approaches, the relationships between things are reduced to a single link without identity and attributes. Nebula Graph, as a typical native graph database, allows you to keep the rich relationships that originated from reality equally well-represented in the database without resorting to also modeling the relationships as entities.

## Benefits of Nebula Graph

### Easy data modeling and high flexibility

You can easily model the connected data into Nebula Graph for your business without forcing them into a structure such as a relational table, and properties can be added, updated, and deleted freely. For more information, see [Data modeling](TODO) [TODO] and [Nebula Graph CRUD](../3.quick-start/4.nebula-graph-crud.md).

### Outstanding performance

Written in C++ and born for graph, Nebula Graph handles graph queries in milliseconds. Among most databases, Nebula Graph shows superior performance in providing graph data services. The larger the data size, the greater the superiority of Nebula Graph. For more information, see [Nebula Graph benchmarking](https://discuss.nebula-graph.io/t/nebula-graph-1-0-benchmark-report/581).

### High popularity

Nebula Graph is being used by tech leaders such as Tencent, Vivo, Meituan, JD Digits., and a lot more.

### Open-source

Nebula Graph is open under the Apache 2.0 and the Commons Clause 1.0 license. More and more people such as database developers, data scientists, security experts, algorithm engineers are participating in the designing and development of Nebula Graph. To join the opening of source code and ideas, surf the [Nebula Graph Github page](https://github.com/vesoft-inc/nebula-graph).

### Developer friendly

Nebula Graph supports clients in popular programming languages like Java, Python, C++, and Go, and more are being developed. For more information, see [Nebula Graph clients](TODO) [TODO].

### Reliable access control

Nebula Graph supports strict role-based ACL and external authentication servers such as LDAP to enhance data security. For more information, see [Authentication and authorization](TODO) [TODO].

### High scalability

Nebula Graph is designed in a shared-nothing architecture and supports scaling in and out without interrupting the database service.

### Diversified ecosystem

[TODO]

### SQL-like query language

The native Nebula Graph Query Language (nGQL), is a declarative, textual query language like SQL, but for graphs. It is easy to understand and easy to use. Starting from Nebula Graph 2.0.0-alpha, nGQL is on the way to be fully compatible with openCypher. For more information, see [nGQL guide](https://github.com/vesoft-inc/nebula-docs/tree/master/docs_2.0/manual_EN/4.ngql-guide).

## Use cases

To spare the time spent on pushing the kinds of data mentioned in this section into relational databases and on bothering for join queries, use Nebula Graph.

### Fraud detection

Financial institutions have to traverse countless transactions to piece together potential crimes, and understand how combinations of transactions and devices might be related to a single fraud scheme. This kind of scenario can be modeled in graphs, and with the help of Nebula Graph, fraud rings and other sophisticated scams can be easily detected.

### Real-time recommendation

Nebula Graph offers the ability to instantly process the real-time information a visitor and make accurate recommendations on articles, videos, products, and services.

### Intelligent question-answer system

Natural languages can be transformed into knowledge graphs and stored in Nebula Graph. A question organized in a natural language can be resolved by a semantic parser in an intelligent question-answer system and re-organized. Then, possible answers to the question can be retrieved out of the knowledge graph and provided to the one who asked the question.

### Social Networking

Information on people and their relationships are typical graph data. Nebula Graph can easily handle the social networking information of billions of people and trillions of relationships, and provide lightning-fast query speed for friend recommendations and job promotions in the case of massive concurrency.
