# Built-in math functions

## Function descriptions

Nebula Graph supports the following built-in math functions:

Function| Description |
----  |  ----|
double abs(double x) | Returns the absolute value of the argument. |
double floor(double x) | Returns the largest integer value smaller than or equal to the argument. (Rounds down) |
double ceil(double x) | Returns the smallest integer greater than or equal to the argument. (Rounds up) |
double round(double x) | Returns the integer value nearest to the argument. Returns a number farther away from 0 if the argument is in the middle. |
double sqrt(double x) | Returns the square root of the argument. |
double cbrt(double x) | Returns the cubic root of the argument. |
double hypot(double x, double y) | Returns the hypotenuse of a right-angled triangle. |
double pow(double x, double y) | Returns the result of $x^y$. |
double exp(double x) | Returns the result of $e^x$. |
double exp2(double x) | Returns the result of $2^x$. |
double log(double x) | Returns the base-e logarithm of the argument. |
double log2(double x) | Returns the base-2 logarithm of the argument. |
double log10(double x) | Returns the base-10 logarithm of the argument. |
double sin(double x) | Returns the sine of the argument. |
double asin(double x) | Returns the inverse sine of the argument. |
double cos(double x) | Returns the cosine of the argument. |
double acos(double x) | Returns the inverse cosine of the argument. |
double tan(double x) | Returns the tangent of the argument. |
double atan(double x) | Returns the inverse tangent of the argument. |
double rand() | Returns a random floating point number in the range from 0 (inclusive) to 1 (exclusive); i.e.[0,1). |
int rand32(int min, int max) | Returns a random 32-bit integer in `[min, max)`.<br>If you set only one argument, it is parsed as `max` and `min` is `0` by default.<br>If you set no argument, the system returns a random signed 32-bit integer. |
int rand64(int min, int max) | Returns a random 64-bit integer in `[min, max)`.<br>If you set only one argument, it is parsed as `max` and `min` is `0` by default.<br>If you set no argument, the system returns a random signed 64-bit integer. |
collect() | Puts all the collected values into a list. |
avg() | Returns the average value of the argument. |
count() | Returns the number of records. |
max() | Returns the maximum value. |
min() | Returns the minimum value. |
std() | Returns the population standard deviation. |
sum() | Returns the sum value. |
bit_and() | Bitwise AND. |
bit_or() | Bitwise OR. |
bit_xor() | Bitwise XOR. |
int size() | Returns the number of elements in a list or a map. |
int range(int start, int end, int step) | Returns a list of integers from `[start,end]` in the specified steps. `step` is 1 by default. |
int sign(double x) | Returns the signum of the given number.<br>If the number is 0, the system returns 0.<br>If the number is negative, the system returns -1.<br>If the number is positive, the system returns 1. |
double e()  | Returns the base of the natural logarithm, e (2.718281828459045). |
double pi() | Returns the mathematical constant pi (3.141592653589793). |
double radians() | Converts degrees to radians. `radians(180)` returns `3.141592653589793`. |

!!! note

    If the argument is `NULL`, the output is undefined.

## Example

```ngql
# The following statement supports aggregate functions.
nebula>  GO FROM "player100" OVER follow YIELD dst(edge) AS dst, properties($$).age AS age \
         | GROUP BY $-.dst \
         YIELD \
         $-.dst AS dst, \
         toInteger((sum($-.age)/count($-.age)))+avg(distinct $-.age+1)+1 AS statistics;
+-------------+------------+
| dst         | statistics |
+-------------+------------+
| "player125" | 84.0       |
| "player101" | 74.0       |
+-------------+------------+
Got 2 rows (time spent 4739/5064 us)

```
