# Built-in string functions

NebulaGraph supports the following built-in string functions:

!!! Note

    Like SQL, the position index of nGQL starts from `1`, while in C language it starts from `0`.

Function| Description |
----  |  ----|
int strcasecmp(string a, string b) | Compares string a and b without case sensitivity. When a = b, the return value is 0. When a > b, the return value is greater than 0. When a < b, the return value is less than 0. |
string lower(string a) | Returns the argument in lowercase. |
string toLower(string a) | The same as `lower()`. |
string upper(string a) | Returns the argument in uppercase. |
string toUpper(string a) | The same as `upper()`. |
int length(string a) | Returns the length of the given string in bytes. |
string trim(string a) | Removes leading and trailing spaces. |
string ltrim(string a) | Removes leading spaces. |
string rtrim(string a) | Removes trailing spaces. |
string left(string a, int count) | Returns a substring consisting of `count` characters from the left side of string a. If string a is shorter than `count`, the system returns string a. |
string right(string a, int count) | Returns a substring consisting of `count` characters from the right side of string a. If string a is shorter than `count`, the system returns string a. |
string lpad(string a, int size, string letters) | Left-pads string a with string `letters` and returns a substring with the length of `size`. |
string rpad(string a, int size, string letters)| Right-pads string a with string `letters` and returns a substring with the length of `size`. |
string substr(string a, int pos, int count) | Returns a substring extracting `count` characters starting from the specified position `pos` of string a. |
string substring(string a, int pos, int count) | The same as `substr()`. |
string reverse(string) | Returns a string in reverse order.
string replace(string a, string b, string c) | Replaces string b in string a with string c. |
list split(string a, string b) | Splits string a at string b and returns a list of strings. |
string toString() | Takes in any data type and converts it into a string. |
int hash() | Takes in any data type and encodes it into a hash value. |

!!! note

    If the argument is `NULL`, the return is undefined.

## Explanations for the return of `substr()` and `substring()`

- The position index starts from `0`.

- If `pos` is 0, the whole string is returned.

- If `pos` is greater than the maximum string index, an empty string is returned.

- If `pos` is a negative number, `BAD_DATA` is returned.

- If `count` is omitted, the function returns the substring starting at the position given by `pos` and extending to the end of the string.

- If `count` is 0, an empty string is returned.

- Using `NULL` as any of the argument of `substr()` will cause [an issue](https://github.com/vesoft-inc/nebula-graph/issues/878).

!!! note "OpenCypher compatibility"

    - In openCypher, if `a` is `null`, `null` is returned.
    - In openCypher, if `pos` is 0, the returned substring starts from the first character, and extend to `count` characters.
    - In openCypher, if either `pos` or `count` is `null` or a negative integer, an issue is raised.
