# Use BR to back up data

After the BR is compiled, you can back up data of the entire graph space. This topic introduces how to use the BR to back up data.

## Prerequisites

To back up data with the BR, do a check of these:

- The BR is compiled. For more information, see [Compile BR](2.compile-br.md).

- The Nebula Graph services are running.

- The account on the BR machine can log on via SSH to the meta and the storage servers without a password. For more information, see [SSH tunnels with keys](http://alexander.holbreich.org/ssh-tunnel-without-password/).

- If you use Amazon S3 or Alibaba Cloud OSS to store the backup files, make sure that the S3 CLI client or ossutil is installed and configured on the meta servers, the storage servers, and the BR machine. For more information, see [Alibaba Cloud ossutil Documentation](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/zh/doc-detail/120075.htm#concept-303829) and [Amazon S3 CLI Documentation](https://docs.amazonaws.cn/cli/latest/userguide/cli-services-s3.html).

  !!! note

      Run `ln -s /<ossutil_tool_installation_path>/<ossutil64 or ossutil> /usr/local/bin/ossutil` to make the `ossutil` command effective.

- If you store the backup files locally, create a directory with the same absolute path on the meta servers, the storage servers, and the BR machine for the backup files and get the absolute path. Make sure the account has write privileges for this directory.

  !!! note

      In the production environment, we recommend that you mount Network File System (NFS) storage to the meta servers, the storage servers, and the BR machine for local backup, or use S3 or OSS for remote backup. When you restore the data from local files, you must manually move these backup files to a specified directory, which causes redundant data and troubles. For more information, see [Restore data from backup files](4.br-restore-data.md).

## Procedure

Run the following command to perform a full backup for the entire cluster.

!!! Note

    Make sure that the local path where the backup file is stored exists.

```bash
$ ./bin/br backup full --meta <ip_address> --storage <storage_path> --user <user_name> --verbose
```

For example, run the following command to perform a full backup for the entire cluster whose meta service address is `192.168.*.*:9559` with the username `test`, and save the backup file to `/home/test/backup`.

```bash
 $ ./bin/br backup full --meta "192.168.*.*:9559" --storage "local:///home/test/backup" --user "test" --verbose
 ```

The parameters are as follows.

| Parameter | Required | Default values | Description | Data type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| --concurrent | No | 5 | The maximum number of concurrency for Alibaba Cloud OSS. | int |
| --connection | No | 5 | The maximum number of SSH connections. | int |
| --extra_args | No | None | The parameters of backup storage tools (OSS/HDFS/S3) for backup. | string |
| --log | No | "br.log" | The log path. | string |
| --meta | Yes | None | The IP address and port of the meta service. | string |
| --storage | Yes | None | The target storage url of BR backup data. The format is: \<Schema\>://\<PATH\>. <br>Schema: Optional values are `local` and `hdfs`. <br>PATH: The path of the storage location. | string |
| --user | Yes | None | The username to login into the hosts where meta/storage service is located. | string |
| --verbose | No | None | Shows detailed backup information. | - |

## Next to do

After the backup files are generated, you can use the BR to restore them for Nebula Graph. For more information, see [Use BR to restore data](4.br-restore-data.md).
