# Scale a service instance

The elastic scaling function of NebulaGraph on Alibaba Cloud supports scaling service nodes to flexibly adjust the service instance.

## Limitations

- The elastic scaling function supports storage scaling-out but not scaling-in.
- When using the elastic scaling function to scale in Graph services, you need to first use the scaling function of NebulaGraph Dashboard in the service instance to delete Graph service nodes that are no longer needed. There is no such limitation when scaling out Graph services.

## Steps

1. Log in to the [Service Instances](https://computenest.console.aliyun.com/user/ap-southeast-1/serviceInstance/private "https://computenest.console.aliyun.com/user/ap-southeast-1/serviceInstance/private") page of Alibaba Cloud Computing Nest.

2. In the service instance list, click the ID of the target instance or **Details** in its **Actions** column.

  !!! note

        The list of free trial service instances is on the **Trial Service** tab.

3. On the **Service Instances** page, click the **O&M Management** tab.

4. In the **Application O&M** area, click **Elastic Scaling**.

5. In the **Elastic Scaling** dialog box, complete the following operations:

  1. Confirm that **ResourceType** is **ESS**.

  2. Select the **ScalingGroupId**.
    
    - To scale the Storage service, select the scaling group whose name starts with **ng-storage**.
    - To scale the Graph service, select the scaling group whose name starts with **ng-graph**.
  
  3. Select the **AdjustmentType**。
   
    - If you select **Scale out** or **Scale in**, the **AdjustmentCount** below specifies the number of nodes to be added or removed.
    - If you select **Changed to Specific Quantity**, the **AdjustmentCount** below specifies the number of nodes remaining after the node adjustment, not the number to be added or removed.
  
  4. Set the **AdjustmentCount**.
  
  5. Click **Next**.
  
  6. Check the task information, and click **Create** after confirming that it is correct.

6. Wait for a few minutes until the **Execution Status** in the **O&M Management** tab shows **Successful**.

7. Click the **Overview** tab and check the number of ECS instances in the **Service Information** area. If the adjustment effect meets the expectations, the scaling is complete.
