# What is Backup Restore (Enterprise Edition)

Backup Restore (BR for short) Enterprise Edition is a Command-Line Interface (CLI) tool. With BR Enterprise Edition, you can back up and restore NebulaGraph data.

For the deployment of BR in K8s Operator, see [Backup and restore data using NebulaGraph Operator](../../nebula-operator/10.backup-restore-using-operator.md).

!!! enterpriseonly

    The BR Enterprise Edition tool is for NebulaGraph Enterprise Edition only.

## Features

- Backups and restoration of NebulaGraph data with a single command:
  - Support full and incremental backups.
  - Support the restoration of a full backup.
  - Support restoration across NebulaGraph clusters.
- Cloud and on-premises backup and restoration:
  - Local disks (SSD or HDD). It is recommended to use local disks with the shared storage service NFS.
  - Cloud services compatible with the Amazon S3 interface, such as Alibaba Cloud OSS, MinIO, Ceph RGW, etc.
- Support to view the progress of backup or restoration.

## Limits

- The version of NebulaGraph Enterprise Edition clusters must be equal to or greater than v{{ nebula.release }}.
- [Listener](../../4.deployment-and-installation/6.deploy-text-based-index/3.deploy-listener.md) backups are not supported.
- Full-text indexes data backups are not supported.
- If you back up data to a local disk, the backup files will be saved in the local storage path of each server in a NebulaGraph cluster. You can also mount the NFS on your server to restore the backup data to a different server.
- During the backup process, both DDL and DML statements in a specified graph space are blocked. We recommend that you perform the operation within the low peak period of the business, for example, from 2:00 AM to 5:00 AM.
- Restoration requires that the number of the storage servers in the original cluster is the same as that of the storage servers in the target cluster and storage server IPs must be the same. 
- Backing up data of a specified graph space is not supported.
- Using BR Enterprise Edition in a container-based NebulaGraph cluster is not supported.

## Usage process

To use BR Enterprise Edition, follow these steps:

1. [Install BR (Enterprise Edition)](2.install-tools.md)
2. [Back up data](3.backup-data.md)
3. [Restore data](4.restore-data.md)



