# Install BR (Enterprise Edition)

The BR Enterprise Edition tool is used to back up and restore NebulaGraph Enterprise Edition data. This topic describes how to install this tool.

## Notes

To use the BR (Enterprise Edition) tool, you need to install the NebulaGraph Agent plug-in, which is taken as a daemon for each machine in the cluster that starts and stops the NebulaGraph service, and uploads and downloads backup files. The BR (Enterprise Edition) tool and the Agent plug-in are installed as described below.

## Version compatibility

|NebulaGraph Enterprise Edition|BR Enterprise Edition|Agent |
|:---|:---|:---|
|3.5.x|3.5.1|3.4.0|
|3.4.1|3.4.0 ~ 3.4.1|3.4.0|

## Install BR (Enterprise Edition)

The BR (Enterprise Edition) is a command-line interface (CLI) tool that helps to back up NebulaGraph data or restore the data through backup files.

Follow these steps:

1. Obtain the RPM package.
   
  !!! enterpriseonly

        [Contact us](https://www.nebula-graph.io/contact) to obtain the BR Enterprise Edition installation package.


2. Run `sudo rpm -i <rpm>` to install the RPM package.
  <!-- Make sure the correctness of steps and package name. -->
  For example, install BR Enterprise Edition with the following command, and the default installation path is `/usr/local/br-ent/`:

  `sudo rpm -i nebula-br-ent-<version>.x86_64.rpm`

In the BR Enterprise Edition installation directory, run `./br version` to view version information. The following information is returned:

```
[br-ent]$ ./br version
Nebula Backup And Restore Utility Tool,V-{{br_ent.release}}
```

## Install Agent 

NebulaGraph Agent is installed as a binary file in each machine and serves the BR tool with the RPC protocol.

In **each machine**, follow these steps:

1. Install Agent.

  ```
  wget https://github.com/vesoft-inc/nebula-agent/releases/download/v{{agent.release}}/agent-{{agent.release}}-linux-amd64
  ```

2. Rename the Agent file to `agent`.

  ```
  sudo mv agent-{{agent.release}}-linux-amd64 agent
  ```

3. Add execute permission to Agent. 
  
  ```
  sudo chmod +x agent
  ```

4. Start Agent.
  
  !!! note

        Before starting Agent, make sure that the Meta service has been started and Agent has read and write access to the corresponding NebulaGraph cluster directory and backup directory. 

  ```
  sudo nohup ./agent --agent="<agent_node_ip>:8888" --meta="<metad_node_ip>:9559" > nebula_agent.log 2>&1 &
  ```

  - `--agent`: The IP address and port number of Agent.
  - `--meta`: The IP address and access port of any Meta service in the cluster.
  - `--ratelimit`: (Optional) Limits the speed of file uploads and downloads to prevent bandwidth from being filled up and making other services unavailable. Unit: Bytes.

  For example: 

  ```
  sudo nohup ./agent --agent="192.168.8.129:8888" --meta="192.168.8.129:9559" --ratelimit=1048576 > nebula_agent.log 2>&1 &
  ```

5. Log into NebulaGraph and then run the following command to view the status of Agent.
  
  ```
  nebula> SHOW HOSTS AGENT;
  +-----------------+------+----------+---------+--------------+---------+
  | Host            | Port | Status   | Role    | Git Info Sha | Version |
  +-----------------+------+----------+---------+--------------+---------+
  | "192.168.8.129" | 8888 | "ONLINE" | "AGENT" | "96646b8"    |         |
  +-----------------+------+----------+---------+--------------+---------+  
  ```
