# Customize configuration parameters for a NebulaGraph cluster

Meta, Storage, and Graph services in a NebulaGraph Cluster have their own configuration settings, which are defined in the YAML file of the NebulaGraph cluster instance as `config`. These settings are mapped and loaded into the corresponding service's ConfigMap in Kubernetes. At the time of startup, the configuration present in the ConfigMap is mounted onto the directory `/usr/local/nebula/etc/` for every service.

!!! note

    It is not available to customize configuration parameters for NebulaGraph Clusters deployed with Helm.

The structure of `config` is as follows.

```go
Config map[string]string `json:"config,omitempty"`
```
## Prerequisites

You have created a NebulaGraph cluster. For how to create a cluster with Kubectl, see [Create a cluster with Kubectl](../3.deploy-nebula-graph-cluster/3.1create-cluster-with-kubectl.md). 

## Steps

The following example uses a cluster named `nebula` and the cluster's configuration file named `nebula_cluster.yaml` to show how to set `config` for the Graph service in a NebulaGraph cluster.

1. Run the following command to access the edit page of the `nebula` cluster.
   
  ```bash
  kubectl edit nebulaclusters.apps.nebula-graph.io nebula
  ```

2. Add `enable_authorize` and `auth_type` under `spec.graphd.config`.

  ```yaml
  apiVersion: apps.nebula-graph.io/v1alpha1
  kind: NebulaCluster
  metadata:
    name: nebula
    namespace: default
  spec:
    graphd:
      resources:
        requests:
          cpu: "500m"
          memory: "500Mi"
        limits:
          cpu: "1"
          memory: "1Gi"
      replicas: 1
      image: vesoft/nebula-graphd
      version: {{nebula.tag}}
      storageClaim:
        resources:
          requests:
            storage: 2Gi
        storageClassName: fast-disks
      config: // Custom configuration parameters for the Graph service in a cluster.
        "enable_authorize": "true"
        "auth_type": "password"
  ...
  ```
  
  To add the `config` for the Meta and Storage services, add `spec.metad.config` and `spec.storaged.config` respectively.

3. Run `kubectl apply -f nebula_cluster.yaml` to push your configuration changes to the cluster.

  After customizing the parameters `enable_authorize` and `auth_type`, the configurations in the corresponding ConfigMap (`nebula-graphd`) of the Graph service will be overwritten.

## Modify cluster configurations online

Cluster configurations are modified online by calling the HTTP interface, without the need to restart the cluster Pod.

It should be noted that only when all configuration items in `config` are the parameters that can be dynamically modified at runtime, can the operation of online modifications be triggered. If the configuration items in `config` contain parameters that cannot be dynamically modified, then the cluster configuration will be updated by restarting the Pod.

For information about the parameters that can be dynamically modified for each service, see the parameter table column of **Whether supports runtime dynamic modifications** in [Meta service configuration parameters](../../5.configurations-and-logs/1.configurations/2.meta-config.md), [Storage service configuration parameters](../../5.configurations-and-logs/1.configurations/4.storage-config.md), and [Graph service configuration parameters](../../5.configurations-and-logs/1.configurations/3.graph-config.md), respectively.

## Learn more

For more information about the configuration parameters of Meta, Storage, and Graph services, see [Meta service configuration parameters](../../5.configurations-and-logs/1.configurations/2.meta-config.md), [Storage service configuration parameters](../../5.configurations-and-logs/1.configurations/4.storage-config.md), and [Graph service configuration parameters](../../5.configurations-and-logs/1.configurations/3.graph-config.md).

