# Authentication

NebulaGraph replies on local authentication authentication to implement access control.

NebulaGraph creates a session when a client connects to it. The session stores information about the connection, including the user information. If the authentication system is enabled, the session will be mapped to corresponding users.

!!! Note

    By default, the authentication is disabled and NebulaGraph allows connections with the username `root` and any password.

{{ ent.ent_begin }}
!!! enterpriseonly

    NebulaGraph also supports LDAP authentication.

{{ ent.ent_end }}

## Local authentication

Local authentication indicates that usernames and passwords are stored locally on the server, with the passwords encrypted. Users will be authenticated when trying to visit NebulaGraph.

### Enable local authentication

1. Modify the `nebula-graphd.conf` file (`/usr/local/nebula/etc/` is the default path) to set the following parameters:

  - `--enable_authorize`: Set its value to `true` to enable authentication.

    !!! Note

        - By default, the authentication is disabled and NebulaGraph allows connections with the username `root` and any password.
        - You can use the username `root` and password `nebula` to log into NebulaGraph after enabling local authentication. This account has the build-in God role. For more information about roles, see [Roles and privileges](3.role-list.md).

  - `--failed_login_attempts`: This parameter is optional, and you need to add this parameter manually. Specify the attempts of continuously entering incorrect passwords for a single Graph service. When the number exceeds the limitation, your account will be locked. For multiple Graph services, the allowed attempts are `number of services * failed_login_attempts`.

  - `--password_lock_time_in_secs`: This parameter is optional, and you need to add this parameter manually. Specify the time how long your account is locked after multiple incorrect password entries are entered. Unit: second.

2. Restart the NebulaGraph services. For how to restart, see [Manage NebulaGraph services](../../2.quick-start/5.start-stop-service.md).
    

{{ ent.ent_begin }}
## LDAP authentication

Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) is a lightweight client-server protocol for accessing directories and building a centralized account management system. LDAP authentication and local authentication can be enabled at the same time, but LDAP authentication has a higher priority. If the local authentication server and the LDAP server both have the information of user `Amber`, NebulaGraph reads from the LDAP server first.

### Enable LDAP authentication

!!! Enterpriseonly

    [Contact us](https://www.nebula-graph.io/contact).

{{ ent.ent_end }}
