# Roles and privileges

A role is a collection of privileges. You can assign a role to a user for access control.

## Built-in roles

Nebula Graph does not support custom roles, but it has multiple built-in roles:

* GOD
  * GOD is the original role with all privileges not limited to graph spaces. It is similar to `root` in Linux and `administrator` in Windows.
  * When the Meta Service is initialized, the one and only GOD role user `root` is automatically created with the password `nebula`.
  !!! note

      Modify the password for `root` as soon as possible for security.
  * The default username `root` is immutable.
  * If [authentication](1.authentication.md) is disabled, you can use any username and password to connect to Nebula Graph. This user is regarded as the GOD role.

* ADMIN
  * An ADMIN role can read and write both the Schema and the data in a specific graph space.
  * An ADMIN role of a graph space can grant DBA, USER, and GUEST roles in the graph space to other users.

* DBA
  * A DBA role can read and write both the Schema and the data in a specific graph space.
  * A DBA role of a graph space CANNOT grant roles to other users.

* USER
  * A USER role can read and write data in a specific graph space.
  * The Schema information is read-only to the USER roles in a graph space.

* GUEST
  * A GUEST role can only read the Schema and the data in a specific graph space.

!!! note

    A user can have only one role in a graph space.

## Role privileges and allowed nGQL

The privileges of roles and the nGQL statements that each role can use are listed as follows.

Privilege|God|Admin|DBA|User|Guest|Allowed nGQL|
|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|
|Read space|Y|Y|Y|Y|Y|`USE`, `DESCRIBE SPACE`|
|Write space|Y|||||`CREATE SPACE`, `DROP SPACE`, `CREATE SNAPSHOT`, `DROP SNAPSHOT`, `BALANCE DATA`, `BALANCE DATA STOP`, `BALANCE DATA REMOVE`, `BALANCE LEADER`, `ADMIN`, `CONFIG`, `INGEST`, `DOWNLOAD`, `SUBMIT JOB COMPACT`, `SUBMIT JOB FLUSH`, `SUBMIT JOB STATS`, `STOP JOB`, `RECOVER JOB`, `BUILD TAG INDEX`, `BUILD EDGE INDEX`|
|Read schema|Y|Y|Y|Y|Y|`DESCRIBE TAG`, `DESCRIBE EDGE`, `DESCRIBE TAG INDEX`, `DESCRIBE EDGE INDEX`|
|Write schema|Y|Y|Y|||`CREATE TAG`, `ALTER TAG`, `CREATE EDGE`, `ALTER EDGE`, `DROP TAG`, `DROP EDGE`, `CREATE TAG INDEX`, `CREATE EDGE INDEX`, `DROP TAG INDEX`, `DROP EDGE INDEX`|
|Write user|Y|||||`CREATE USER`, `DROP USER`, `ALTER USER`|
|Write role|Y|Y||||`GRANT`, `REVOKE`|
|Read data|Y|Y|Y|Y|Y|`GO`, `SET`, `PIPE`, `MATCH`, `ASSIGNMENT`, `LOOKUP`, `YIELD`, `ORDER BY`, `FETCH VERTICES`, `Find`, `FETCH EDGES`, `FIND PATH`, `LIMIT`, `GROUP BY`, `RETURN`|
|Write data|Y|Y|Y|Y||`INSERT VERTEX`, `UPDATE VERTEX`, `INSERT EDGE`, `UPDATE EDGE`, `DELETE VERTEX`, `DELETE EDGES`, `DELETE TAG`|
|Show operations|Y|Y|Y|Y|Y|`SHOW`, `CHANGE PASSWORD`|

!!! note

    * The results of `SHOW` operations are limited to the role of a user. For example, all users can run `SHOW SPACES`, but the results only include the graph spaces that the users have privileges.
    * Only the GOD role can run `SHOW USERS` and `SHOW SNAPSHOTS`.
