# CREATE INDEX

```ngql
CREATE {TAG | EDGE} INDEX [IF NOT EXISTS] <index_name> ON {<tag_name> | <edge_name>} (prop_name_list)
```

Use `CREATE INDEX` to add indexes to the existing tag or edge-type.

Before you create indexes on a tag or edge-type, make sure that the tag or edge-type is created with `CREATE TAG/EDGE` statement. Creating an existent index results in an error. You can use the `IF EXISTS` option to conditionally create the index and avoid the error.

Indexes are built to fast process graph queries. Nebula Graph supports two different kinds of indexing to speed up query processing: **tag indexes** and **edge type indexes**.

Most graph queries start the traversal from a list of vertices or edges that are identified by their properties. Indexes make these global retrieval operations efficient on large graphs.

> **NOTE**: Creating index affects the write performance.

We suggest that you import data first and then rebuild the index in batch.

## Create single-property index

```ngql
nebula> CREATE TAG INDEX player_index_0 on player(name(10));
```

> **NOTE**: To index a string type property, you must use the  `col_name(length)` syntax to specify an index prefix length.

The preceding statement creates an index for the `name` property on all vertices carrying the `player` tag. This statement creates an index using the first 10 characters of the name property.

```ngql
nebula> CREATE EDGE INDEX follow_index_0 on follow(degree);
```

The preceding statement creates an index for the `degree` property on all edges carrying the `follow` edge type.

## Create composite index

An index on multiple properties is called a composite index.

> **NOTE**: Index across multiple tags is not yet supported.

Consider the following example:

```ngql
nebula> CREATE TAG INDEX player_index_1 on player(name(10), age);
```

This statement creates a composite index for the `name` and `age` property on all vertices carrying the `player` tag.

## Using index

After the index is created and data is inserted, you can use the [LOOKUP]() (TODO) statement to query the data.

There is usually no need to specify which indexes to use in a query, Nebula Graph figures that out by itself.
