# Nebula Graph Query Language (nGQL)

## What is nGQL

nGQL is a declarative graph query language for Nebula Graph. It allows expressive and efficient graph patterns. nGQL designed for both developers and operations professionals. nGQL is an SQL-like query language, so it's easy to learn. nGQL is a project in progress. New features and optimizations are done steadily. There can be differences between syntax and implementation. Nebula Graph 2.x supports [openCypher 9](https://www.opencypher.org/resources).

## What can nGQL do

- Supports basic graph traverse
- Supports pattern match
- Supports aggregation
- Supports graph mutation
<!-- - Supports distributed transaction (future release) -->
- Supports pipe

## Example Data

The example data in Nebula Graph document statements can be downloaded [here](../nba-2.X.ngql). After downloading the example data, you can import it to Nebula Graph by using the `-f` option in [Nebula Graph Console](../2.quick-start/3.connect-to-nebula-graph.md#use_nebula_console_to_connect_to_nebula_graph).

## Placeholder Identifiers and Values

Refer to the following standards in nGQL:

- ISO/IEC 10646
- ISO/IEC 39075
- ISO/IEC NP 39075 (Draft)

In template code, any token that is not a keyword, a literal value, or punctuation is a placeholder identifier or a placeholder value.

For details of the symbols in nGQL, see the following table:

|  Token | Meaning  |
|  ----  | ----  |
| < >    | name of a syntactic element |
| ::=    | formula that defines an element |
| [ ]    | optional elements |
| { }    | explicitly specified elements |
|  \|    | complete alternative elements |
| ...    |  may be repeated any number of times |

> Tips: If you find the sentence `This page applies to nGQL extensions only.` in this manual, in that page all the grammars, operators, functions, or data types can't work with openCypher.
