# User-defined variables

User-defined variables allow passing the result of one statement to another.

## OpenCypher compatibility

In openCypher, when you refer to the vertex, edge, or path of a variable, you need to name it first. For example:

```ngql
nebula> MATCH (v:player{name:"Tim Duncan"}) RETURN v;
+----------------------------------------------------+
| v                                                  |
+----------------------------------------------------+
| ("player100" :player{name: "Tim Duncan", age: 42}) |
+----------------------------------------------------+
```

The user-defined variable in the preceding query is `v`.

!!! caution

    In a pattern of a MATCH statement, you cannot use the same edge variable repeatedly. For example, `e` cannot be written in the pattern `p=(v1)-[e*2..2]->(v2)-[e*2..2]->(v3)`.

## Native nGQL

User-defined variables are written as `$var_name`. The `var_name` consists of letters, numbers, or underline characters. Any other characters are not permitted.

The user-defined variables are valid only at the current execution (namely, in this composite query). When the execution ends, the user-defined variables will be automatically expired. The user-defined variables in one statement **CANNOT** be used in any other clients, executions, or sessions.

You can use user-defined variables in composite queries. Details about composite queries, see [Composite queries](1.composite-queries.md).

!!! note

    - User-defined variables are case-sensitive.
    - To define a user-defined variable in a compound statement, end the statement with a semicolon (;). For details, please refer to the [nGQL Style Guide](../../3.ngql-guide/1.nGQL-overview/ngql-style-guide.md).

## Example

```ngql
nebula> $var = GO FROM "player100" OVER follow YIELD dst(edge) AS id; \
        GO FROM $var.id OVER serve YIELD properties($$).name AS Team, \
        properties($^).name AS Player;
+-----------+-----------------+
| Team      | Player          |
+-----------+-----------------+
| "Spurs"   | "Tony Parker"   |
| "Hornets" | "Tony Parker"   |
| "Spurs"   | "Manu Ginobili" |
+-----------+-----------------+
```

## Set operations and scope of user-defined variables

When assigning variables within a compound statement involving set operations, it is important to enclose the scope of the variable assignment in parentheses. In the example below, the source of the `$var` assignment is the results of the output of two `INTERSECT` statements. 

```ngql
$var = ( \
    GO FROM "player100" OVER follow \
      YIELD dst(edge) AS id \
    INTERSECT \
    GO FROM "player100" OVER follow \
      YIELD dst(edge) AS id \
       ); \
    GO FROM $var.id OVER follow YIELD follow.degree AS degree
```