# Use NebulaGraph Operator to manage specific clusters

NebulaGraph Operator supports the management of multiple {{nebula.name}} clusters. By default, NebulaGraph Operator manages all {{nebula.name}} clusters. However, you can specify the clusters managed by NebulaGraph Operator. This topic describes how to specify the clusters managed by NebulaGraph Operator.

## Application scenarios

- Gray release of NebulaGraph Operator: You want to run the new Nebula Operator version on a part of the clusters first to test and verify its performance before fully releasing it.
- Manage specific clusters: You want NebulaGraph Operator to manage only specific {{nebula.name}} clusters.

## Configurations

NebulaGraph Operator supports specifying the clusters managed by controller-manager through startup parameters. The supported parameters are as follows:

- `watchNamespaces`: Specifies the namespace where the {{nebula.name}} cluster is located. To specify multiple namespaces, separate them with commas (`,`). For example, `watchNamespaces=default,nebula`. If this parameter is not specified, NebulaGraph Operator manages all {{nebula.name}} clusters in all namespaces.

- `nebulaObjectSelector`: Allows you to set specific labels and values to select the {{nebula.name}} clusters to be managed. It supports three label operation symbols: `=`, `==`, and `!=`. Both `=` and `==` mean that the label's value is equal to the specified value, while `!=` means the tag's value is not equal to the specified value. Multiple labels are separated by commas (`,`), and the comma needs to be escaped with `\\`. For example, `nebulaObjectSelector=key1=value1\\,key2=value2`, which selects only the {{nebula.name}} clusters with labels `key1=value1` and `key2=value2`. If this parameter is not specified, NebulaGraph Operator manages all {{nebula.name}} clusters.

## Examples

### Specify the managed clusters by namespace

Run the following command to make NebulaGraph Operator manage only the {{nebula.name}} clusters in the `default` and `nebula` namespaces. Ensure that the current Helm Chart version supports this parameter. For more information, see [Update the configuration](3.2.update-operator.md).


```bash
helm upgrade nebula-operator nebula-operator/nebula-operator --set watchNamespaces=default,nebula
```

### Specify the managed clusters by label

Run the following command to make NebulaGraph Operator manage only the {{nebula.name}} clusters with the labels `key1=value1` and `key2=value2`. Ensure that the current Helm Chart version supports this parameter. For more information, see [Update the configuration](3.2.update-operator.md).

```bash
helm upgrade nebula-operator nebula-operator/nebula-operator --set nebulaObjectSelector=key1=value1\\,key2=value2
```

## FAQ

### How to set labels for {{nebula.name}} clusters?

Run the following command to set a label for the {{nebula.name}} cluster:


```bash
kubectl label nc <cluster_name> -n <namespace> <key>=<value>
```

For example, set the label `env=test` for the {{nebula.name}} cluster named `nebula` in the `nebulaspace` namespace:

```bash
kubectl label nc nebula -n nebulaspace env=test
```

### How to view the labels of {{nebula.name}} clusters?

Run the following command to view the labels of {{nebula.name}} clusters:

```bash
kubectl get nc <cluster_name> -n <namespace> --show-labels
```

For example, view the labels of the {{nebula.name}} cluster named `nebula` in the `nebulaspace` namespace:

```bash
kubectl get nc nebula -n nebulaspace --show-labels
```

### How to delete the labels of {{nebula.name}} clusters?

Run the following command to delete the label of {{nebula.name}} clusters:

```bash
kubectl label nc <cluster_name> -n <namespace> <key>-
```

For example, delete the label `env=test` of the {{nebula.name}} cluster named `nebula` in the `nebulaspace` namespace:

```bash
kubectl label nc nebula -n nebulaspace env-
```

### How to view the namespace where the {{nebula.name}} cluster is located?

Run the following command to list all namespaces where the {{nebula.name}} clusters are located:

```bash
kubectl get nc --all-namespaces
```
