# Accessory applications(Dashboard/Studio/Explorer)

NebulaGraph Cloud integrates with NebulaGraph Studio, NebulaGraph Dashboard, and NebulaGraph Explorer.

On the **Applications** page, ecosystem tools are different based on roles and privileges. The correspondence between different roles and privileges is as follows. The first column means the tools that the role can use, **Y** means the role has the corresponding privileges, and **N** means the role has no privileges.

|Tools|OWNER|ROOT|USER|
|:---|:---|:---|:---|
|Dashboard|Y|Y|N|
|Studio|N|Y|Y|
|Explorer|N|Y|Y|

## Dashboard

NebulaGraph Dashboard (Dashboard for short) is a visualization tool that monitors and manages the status of machines and services in NebulaGraph clusters. Currently Dashboard in Cloud only supports [Cluster monitoring](../../nebula-dashboard-ent/4.cluster-operator/2.monitor.md) page.

## Studio

NebulaGraph Studio (Studio in short) is a browser-based visualization tool to manage NebulaGraph. It provides you with a graphical user interface to manipulate graph schemas, import data, explore graph data, and run nGQL statements to retrieve data. With Studio, you can quickly become a graph exploration expert from scratch. For more information, see [What is NebulaGraph Studio](../../nebula-studio/about-studio/st-ug-what-is-graph-studio.md).

## Explorer

NebulaGraph Explorer (Explorer in short) is a browser-based visualization tool. It is used with the NebulaGraph core to visualize interaction with graph data. Even without any experience in a graph database, you can quickly become a graph exploration expert. For more information, see [What is NebulaGraph Explorer](../../nebula-explorer/about-explorer/ex-ug-what-is-explorer.md).
