# What is Nebula Graph Cloud

Nebula Graph Cloud (Cloud for short) is a product that supports one-click deployment of Nebula Graph on the [Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/) platform. You can create a graph database within minutes, and quickly expand computing and storage.

## Scenarios

You want to use Azure cloud resources to quickly subscribe to the Nebula Graph service and to deploy the Nebula Graph database to the cloud, supporting the use of visualized tools and functions of privilege management.

## Product features

- Nebula Graph Cloud provides pay-as-you-go and pay-on-demand subscription models. You can create or stop Nebula Graph instances at any time according to your own business needs, enjoying the full flexibility of the cloud.
- The cloud service also integrated our visualized database management tools such as [Nebula Graph Studio](https://nebula-graph.io/products/studio/), [Nebula Dashboard](https://nebula-graph.io/products/dashboard/), and [Nebula Explorer](https://nebula-graph.io/products/explorer/). You can use them to import graph datasets, execute nGQL statements, explore graph data, monitor data, etc. With those tools, you can quickly become a graph expert even without any experience in graph database operations. For details, see [Accessory applications](../nebula-cloud/5.solution/5.1.supporting-application.md).
- You can create private endpoints to connect to the cloud database using Nebula Console without having access to the cloud platform. For details, see [Private Link](../nebula-cloud/5.solution/5.2.connection-configuration-and-use.md).
- Fine-grained access control. You can add database users with different role privileges to the specified graph space to ensure your data security.
- Premium support. You can quickly create work orders for technical support, asking questions you have during your use.

## Product advantages

- Flexible and efficient: You can quickly build a Nebula Graph database without purchasing physical servers, storage devices, computing, or network components. It only takes 5-10 minutes to prepare a complete environment for use.
- High availability: Nebula Graph clusters use Raft to implement data redundancy backup with multi-data center deployment to ensure the integrity of data, and the high availability of the cloud computing infrastructure and cloud servers.
- Easy to use: Nebula Cloud offers a web-based management user interface of Nebula Graph clusters, as well as corresponding visulization tools for Nebula Graph to help users get started quickly.
