# About NebulaGraph licenses

A license is an official permission or permit that defines and restricts the rights of users to use the software. NebulaGraph licenses are used to restrict the use of the Enterprise Edition software. This document describes the NebulaGraph products that require a license and information about the license.

{{ ent.ent_begin }}
## NebulaGraph Enterprise Edition 

NebulaGraph Enterprise Edition is scalable software with high availability and high performance.

A NebulaGraph Enterprise Edition license is required to deploy a NebulaGraph Enterprise Edition cluster.

For more information, see [Deploy a license for NebulaGraph Enterprise Edition](../4.deployment-and-installation/deploy-license.md).
{{ ent.ent_end }}

## NebulaGraphDashboard Enterprise Edition

NebulaGraphDashboard Enterprise Edition is an out-of-the-box visualization tool that monitors and manages the status of cluster machines and services.

A NebulaGraphDashboard Enterprise Edition license is required to deploy NebulaGraphDashboard Enterprise Edition. For more information, see [NebulaGraphDashboard Enterprise Edition license](../nebula-dashboard-ent/11.dashboard-ent-license.md). 

## NebulaGraphExplorer 

NebulaGraphExplorer, which has the Enterprise Edition only, is a browser-based visualization tool. It is used with the NebulaGraph core to visualize interaction with graph data. Even if there is no experience in graph databases, you can quickly become a graph exploration expert.

A NebulaGraphExplorer license is required to deploy NebulaGraphExplorer. For more information, see [NebulaGraphExplorer license](../nebula-explorer/deploy-connect/3.explorer-license.md).


## FAQ about NebulaGraph licenses

### Are the Dashboard/Explorer/NebulaGraph Enterprise Edition licenses the same?

No, the licenses of Dashboard, Explorer, and NebulaGraph Enterprise Editions are independent of each other and cannot be used interchangeably.


{{ ent.ent_begin }}
### During the validity period of the NebulaGraph Enterprise Edition license, after replacing the enterprise edition Meta with the community edition Meta, can the community edition Meta be used with the enterprise edition Graph and Storage?

No, mixed deployments of the enterprise edition services and the community edition services are not supported.

### After the NebulaGraph Enterprise Edition license expires, is it possible that copy the data in the `data` directory and paste it to the same directory of NebulaGraph Community Edition, and then use NebulaGraph services as normal? 

Yes, it is possible. The data of the Enterprise Edition can be used in the Community Edition. The pasted data will only work properly in the services deployed in the Community Edition. Mixed deployments of the enterprise edition services and the community edition services are not supported. For example, the mixed deployment of the enterprise edition Meta service and the community edition Graph and Storage services is not supported.
{{ ent.ent_end }}

### Is there any message before the license expires, and how to renew the license after it expires?

The system will send expiration notifications before the license expires.

The notification time before the license expires is different for the full version license and the trial version license.

- For the full version license:

  - Within 30 days before the license expires or on the day the license expires, there is an expiration reminder when NebulaGraph/Dashboard/Explorer is started.

  - There is a 14-day buffer period after expiration. During the buffer period, you will receive expiration notifications and can continue using NebulaGraph/Dashboard/Explorer. After the buffer period ends, the corresponding service will be down and cannot be started. 

- For the trial version license: 

  - Within 7 days before the license expires or on the day the license expires, there is an expiration reminder when NebulaGraph/Dashboard/Explorer is started.

  - There is no buffer period after expiration. Once the license expires, the corresponding service will be down and cannot be started. 


After your license expires, contact us via [inqury@vesoft.com](mailto:inqury@vesoft.com) to renew it.



