# ALTER TAG

`ALTER TAG` alters the structure of a tag with the given name in a graph space. You can add or drop properties, and change the data type of an existing property. You can also set a [TTL](../8.clauses-and-options/ttl-options.md) (Time-To-Live) on a property, or change its TTL duration.

## Notes

- Running the `ALTER TAG` statement requires some [privileges](../../7.data-security/1.authentication/3.role-list.md) for the graph space. Otherwise, NebulaGraph throws an error.

- Before you alter properties for a tag, make sure that the properties are not indexed. If the properties contain any indexes, the conflict error `[ERROR (-1005)]: Conflict!` will occur when you `ALTER TAG`. For more information on dropping an index, see [DROP INDEX](../14.native-index-statements/6.drop-native-index.md).

- The property name must be unique in a tag. If you add a property with the same name as an existing property or a dropped property, the operation fails.


## Syntax

```ngql
ALTER TAG <tag_name>
    <alter_definition> [[, alter_definition] ...]
    [ttl_definition [, ttl_definition] ... ]
    [COMMENT '<comment>'];

alter_definition:
| ADD    (prop_name data_type [NULL | NOT NULL] [DEFAULT <default_value>] [COMMENT '<comment>'])
| DROP   (prop_name)
| CHANGE (prop_name data_type [NULL | NOT NULL] [DEFAULT <default_value>] [COMMENT '<comment>'])

ttl_definition:
    TTL_DURATION = ttl_duration, TTL_COL = prop_name
```

- `tag_name`: Specifies the tag name that you want to alter. You can alter only one tag in one statement. Before you alter a tag, make sure that the tag exists in the current working graph space. If the tag does not exist, an error will occur when you alter it.

- Multiple `ADD`, `DROP`, and `CHANGE` clauses are permitted in a single `ALTER TAG` statement, separated by commas.

- When a property value is set to `NOT NULL` using `ADD` or `CHANGE`, a default value must be specified for the property, that is, the value of `DEFAULT` must be specified.

- When using `CHANGE` to modify the data type of a property:
  
  - Only the length of a `FIXED_STRING` or an `INT` can be increased. The length of a `STRING` or an `INT` cannot be decreased.

  - Only the data type conversions from FIXED_STRING to STRING and from FLOAT to DOUBLE are allowed.

## Examples

```ngql
nebula> CREATE TAG IF NOT EXISTS t1 (p1 string, p2 int);
nebula> ALTER TAG t1 ADD (p3 int32, fixed_string(10));
nebula> ALTER TAG t1 TTL_DURATION = 2, TTL_COL = "p2";
nebula> ALTER TAG t1 COMMENT = 'test1';
nebula> ALTER TAG t1 ADD (p5 double NOT NULL DEFAULT 0.4 COMMENT 'p5') COMMENT='test2';
// Change the data type of p3 in the TAG t1 from INT32 to INT64, and that of p4 from FIXED_STRING(10) to STRING.
nebula> ALTER TAG t1 CHANGE (p3 int64, p4 string);
[ERROR(-1005)]: Unsupported!
```

## Implementation of the operation

Trying to use a newly altered tag may fail because the alteration of the tag is implemented asynchronously. To make sure the follow-up operations work as expected, Wait for two heartbeat cycles, i.e., 20 seconds.

To change the heartbeat interval, modify the `heartbeat_interval_secs` parameter in the [configuration files](../../5.configurations-and-logs/1.configurations/1.configurations.md) for all services.
