# Install Nebula Graph by compiling the source code

Installing Nebula Graph from the source code allows you to customize the compiling and installation settings and test the latest features.

## Prerequisites

- Users have to prepare correct resources described in [Prepare resources for compiling, installing, and running Nebula Graph](../1.resource-preparations.md).

- The host to be installed with Nebula Graph has access to the Internet.

## Installation steps

1. Use Git to clone the source code of Nebula Graph to the host.

   - [Recommended] To install Nebula Graph v{{nebula.release}}, run the following command.

      ```bash
      $ git clone --branch v{{nebula.release}} https://github.com/vesoft-inc/nebula-graph.git
      ```

   - To install the latest developing release, run the following command to clone the source code from the master branch.

      ```bash
      $ git clone https://github.com/vesoft-inc/nebula-graph.git
      ```

2. Make the `nebula-graph` directory the current working directory.

   ```bash
   $ cd nebula-graph
   ```

3. Create a `build` directory and make it the current working directory.

   ```bash
   $ mkdir build && cd build
   ```

4. Generate Makefile with CMake.

  !!! note

        The installation path is `/usr/local/nebula` by default. To customize it, add the `-DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=<installation_path>` CMake variable in the following command.

        For more information about CMake variables, see [CMake variables](#cmake_variables).

   - If the source code of Nebula Graph v{{nebula.release}} is installed and cloned in step 1, run the following command. The `-DNEBULA_COMMON_REPO_TAG` and `-DNEBULA_STORAGE_REPO_TAG` options are used to specify the correct branches of [nebula-common](https://github.com/vesoft-inc/nebula-common) and [nebula-storage](https://github.com/ vesoft-inc/nebula-storage) repositories to keep the releases of the Nebula Graph components consistent.

      ```bash
      $ cmake -DENABLE_BUILD_STORAGE=on -DENABLE_TESTING=OFF -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release \
      -DNEBULA_COMMON_REPO_TAG=v{{ nebula.release }} -DNEBULA_STORAGE_REPO_TAG=v{{ nebula.release }} ..
      ```

   - If the source code of the `master` branch is installed in step 1, run the following command.

      ```bash
      $ cmake -DENABLE_BUILD_STORAGE=on -DENABLE_TESTING=OFF -DENABLE_MODULE_UPDATE=ON -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release ..
      ```

5. Compile Nebula Graph.

  !!! Note

        Check [Prepare resources for compiling, installing, and running Nebula Graph](../1.resource-preparations.md).

    To speed up the compiling, use the `-j` option to set a concurrent number `N`. It should be $\min(\text{CPU}core number,\frac{the_memory_size(GB)}{2})$.

   ```bash
   $ make -j{N} # E.g., make -j2
   ```

6. Install Nebula Graph.

   ```bash
   $ sudo make install-all
   ```

7. The configuration files in the `etc/` directory (`/usr/local/nebula/etc` by default) are references. Users can create their own configuration files accordingly. If you want to use the scripts in the `script` directory to start, stop, restart, and kill the service, and check the service status, the configuration files have to be named as `nebula-graph.conf`, `nebula-metad.conf`, and `nebula-storaged.conf`.

## Update the master branch

The source code of the master branch changes frequently. If the corresponding Nebula Graph release is installed, update it in the following steps.

    1. In the `nebula-graph/` directory, run `git pull upstream master` to update the source code.

    2. In the `nebula-graph/modules/common/` and `nebula-graph/modules/storage/` directories, run `git pull upstream master` separately.

    3. In the `nebula-graph/build/` directory, run `make -j{N}` and `make install-all` again.

## Next

- [Manage Nebula Graph services](../../2.quick-start/5.start-stop-service.md)

- [Connect to Nebula Graph](../../2.quick-start/3.connect-to-nebula-graph.md)

- [Nebula Graph CRUD](../../2.quick-start/4.nebula-graph-crud.md)

## CMake variables

### Usage of CMake variables

```bash
$ cmake -D<variable>=<value> ...
```

The following CMake variables can be used at the configure (cmake) stage to adjust the compiling settings.

### ENABLE_BUILD_STORAGE

Starting from {{ nebula.release }}, Nebula Graph uses two separated github repositories of graph and storage for separated compiling. The `ENABLE_BUILD_STORAGE` variable is set to `OFF` by default so that the storage service is not installed together with the graph service.

If you are deploying Nebula Graph on a single host for testing, you can set `ENABLE_BUILD_STORAGE` to `ON` to download and install the storage service automatically.

### CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX

`CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX` specifies the path where the service modules, scripts, configuration files are installed. The default path is `/usr/local/nebula`.

### ENABLE_WERROR

`ENABLE_WERROR` is `ON` by default and it makes all warnings into errors. You can set it to `OFF` if needed.

### ENABLE_TESTING

`ENABLE_TESTING` is `ON` by default and unit tests are built with the Nebula Graph services. If you just need the service modules, set it to `OFF`.

### ENABLE_ASAN

`ENABLE_ASAN` is `OFF` by default and the building of ASan (AddressSanitizer), a memory error detector, is disabled. To enable it, set `ENABLE_ASAN` to `ON`. This variable is intended for Nebula Graph developers.

### CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE

Nebula Graph supports the following building types of `MAKE_BUILD_TYPE`:

- `Debug`

   The default value of `CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE`. It indicates building Nebula Graph with the debug info but not the optimization options.

- `Release`

   It indicates building Nebula Graph with the optimization options but not the debug info.

- `RelWithDebInfo`

   It indicates building Nebula Graph with the optimization options and the debug info.

- `MinSizeRel`

   It indicates building Nebula Graph with the optimization options for controlling the code size but not the debug info.

### CMAKE_C_COMPILER/CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER

Usually, CMake locates and uses a C/C++ compiler installed in the host automatically. But if your compiler is not installed at the standard path, or if you want to use a different one, run the command as follows to specify the installation path of the target compiler:

```bash
$ cmake -DCMAKE_C_COMPILER=<path_to_gcc/bin/gcc> -DCMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=<path_to_gcc/bin/g++> ..
$ cmake -DCMAKE_C_COMPILER=<path_to_clang/bin/clang> -DCMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=<path_to_clang/bin/clang++> ..
```

### ENABLE_CCACHE

`ENABLE_CCACHE` is `ON` by default and ccache (compiler cache) is used to speed up the compiling of Nebula Graph.

To disable `ccache`, setting `ENABLE_CCACHE` to `OFF` is not enough. On some platforms, the `ccache` installation hooks up or precedes the compiler. In such a case, you have to set an environment variable `export CCACHE_DISABLE=true` or add a line `disable=true` in `~/.ccache/ccache.conf` as well. For more information, see the [ccache official documentation](https://ccache.dev/manual/3.7.6.html).

### NEBULA_THIRDPARTY_ROOT

`NEBULA_THIRDPARTY_ROOT` specifies the path where the third party software is installed. By default it is `/opt/vesoft/third-party`.

## Examine problems

If the compiling fails, we suggest you:

1. Check whether the operating system release meets the requirements and whether the memory and hard disk space are sufficient.

2. Check whether the [third-party](../1.resource-preparations/#_5) is installed correctly.

3. Use `make -j1` to reduce the compiling concurrency.

4. Update the code `git pull`, compile again, and add the CMake option `-DENABLE_MODULE_UPDATE=ON` in step 4.
