
# Compile NebulaGraph using Docker

NebulaGraph's source code is written in C++. Compiling NebulaGraph requires certain dependencies which might conflict with host system dependencies, potentially causing compilation failures. Docker offers a solution to this. NebulaGraph provides a Docker image containing the complete compilation environment, ensuring an efficient build process and avoiding host OS conflicts. This guide outlines the steps to compile NebulaGraph using Docker.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin:

1. **Docker**: Ensure Docker is installed on your system.
  
2. **Clone NebulaGraph's Source Code**: Clone the repository locally using:
   
  ```bash
  git clone --branch {{nebula.branch}} https://github.com/vesoft-inc/nebula.git
  ```

  This clones the NebulaGraph source code to a subdirectory named `nebula`.

## Compilation steps

1. Pull the NebulaGraph compilation image.
   
  ```bash
  docker pull vesoft/nebula-dev:ubuntu2004
  ```

   Here, we use the official NebulaGraph compilation image, `ubuntu2004`. For different versions, see [nebula-dev-docker](https://github.com/vesoft-inc/nebula-dev-docker/#nebula-graph-development-docker-image).

2. Create a Docker network.
   
  This step ensures port mapping between the container and the host.

  ```bash
  docker network create nebula-net
  ```

3. Start the compilation container.
   
  ```bash
  docker run -ti \
    --network nebula-net \
    --security-opt seccomp=unconfined \
    -v "$PWD":/home \
    -w /home \
    --name nebula_dev \
    vesoft/nebula-dev:ubuntu2004 \
    bash
  ```

  - `--network nebula-net`: Adds the container to the `nebula-net` network.

  - `-v "$PWD":/home`: Mounts the local path of the NebulaGraph code to the container's `/home` directory.

  - `-w /home`: Sets the container's working directory to `/home`. Any command run inside the container will use this directory as the current directory.

  - `--name nebula_dev`: Assigns a name to the container, making it easier to manage and operate.

  - `vesoft/nebula-dev:ubuntu2004`: Uses the `ubuntu2004` version of the `vesoft/nebula-dev` compilation image.

  - `bash`: Executes the `bash` command inside the container, entering the container's interactive terminal.


  After executing this command, you'll enter an interactive terminal inside the container. To re-enter the container, use `docker exec -ti nebula_dev bash`.

4. Compile NebulaGraph inside the container.
   
  ```docker
  # Enter the NebulaGraph source code directory
  cd nebula

  # Create a build directory and enter it
  mkdir build && cd build

  # Use CMake to generate the Makefile.
  cmake -DCMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=$TOOLSET_CLANG_DIR/bin/g++ -DCMAKE_C_COMPILER=$TOOLSET_CLANG_DIR/bin/gcc -DENABLE_WERROR=OFF -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug -DENABLE_TESTING=OFF ..

  # Compile NebulaGraph. 
  # The -j parameter specifies the number of threads to use.
  # If you have a multi-core CPU, you can use more threads to speed up compilation.
  make -j2
  ```

  Compilation might take some time based on your system performance. For more on CMake, see [CMake Parameters](1.install-nebula-graph-by-compiling-the-source-code.md#cmake_variables).

5. Install the Executables and Libraries.

  Post successful compilation, NebulaGraph's binaries and libraries are located in `/home/nebula/build`. Install them to `/usr/local/nebula`:
  
  ```docker
  make install
  ```

Once completed, NebulaGraph is compiled and installed in the host directory `/usr/local/nebula`.

## Next Steps

- [Start NebulaGraph Service](../manage-service.md)
- [Connect to NebulaGraph](../connect-to-nebula-graph.md)
