# Install Nebula Graph by compiling the source code

Installing Nebula Graph from the source code allows you to test the latest features even before the official release of new versions. You can also customize the installation settings during manual compiling and building.

## Prerequisites

* You have prepared the necessary resources described in [Prepare resources for compiling, installing, and running Nebula Graph](../1.resource-preparations.md/).

* You can access the Internet from the host you plan to install Nebula Graph.

## How to install

1. Use Git to clone the source code of Nebula Graph to your host.

    ```bash
    $ git clone https://github.com/vesoft-inc/nebula-graph.git
    ```

2. Make `nebula-graph` the current working directory.

    ```bash
    & cd nebula-graph
    ```

3. Create a `build` directory and make it the current working directory.

    ```bash
    & mkdir build && cd build
    ```

4. Generate the Makefile with CMake.

    > **NOTE**:
    >
    >* The installation path is /user/local/nebula by default. To customize it, add the `-DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/your/install/  path/` CMake variable in the following command.
    >* For the instructions of the CMake variables, see [CMake variables](#cmake-variables).

    ```bash
    $ cmake -DENABLE_BUILD_STORAGE=on -DENABLE_TESTING=OFF -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release ..
    ```

5. Compile Nebula Graph.

    Assuming *cores* is the number of CPU cores and *mem_gb* is the memory size (in GB), to appropriately speed up the compiling, you can use the value of the smaller one between cores and mem_gb/2 as the value of N in the following command.

    ```bash
    $ make -jN
    ```

6. Install Nebula Graph.

    ```bash
    $ make install-all
    ```

## CMake variables [TODO: to be optimized and confirmed]

The following CMake variables can be used at the configure (cmake) stage to adjust the compiling configuration.

Usage:

```bash
$ cmake -DVariable=<value> ...
```

### ENABLE_BUILD_STORAGE

The Nebula Graph 2.0 series support separated compute and storage. The `ENABLE_BUILD_STORAGE` variable is set to `OFF` by default so that the storage service is not installed together with the graph service.

But if you are deploying Nebula Graph on a single host for testing, you can set `ENABLE_BUILD_STORAGE` to `ON` to download and install the storage service automatically.

### CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX

`CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX` specifies the path where the service modules, scripts, configuration files are installed. The default path is `/usr/local/nebula`.

### ENABLE_WERROR

`ENABLE_WERROR` is `ON` by default and it makes all warnings into errors. You can set it to `OFF` if needed.

### ENABLE_TESTING

`ENABLE_TESTING` is `ON` by default and unit tests in the repository are built with the Nebula Graph services. If you just need the service modules, set it to `OFF`.

### ENABLE_ASAN

This option enables or disables the ASan building, a.k.a AddressSanitizer, which is a memory error detector. It is meant to be used by **Nebula Graph** developers. This option is `OFF` by default.

### CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE

There are a few building types supported:

* `Debug`, to build with debug info but without optimization, which is by default
* `Release`, to build with optimization but without debug info
* `RelWithDebInfo`, to build with optimization AND debug info
* `MinSizeRel`, to build with optimizations for code size

### CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER

Normally, CMake will figure out and locate an applicable C++ compiler for us. But if your compiler installation is not at the standard location, or if you want to use a different one, you have to specify it explicitly as follows:

```bash
$ cmake -DCMAKE_C_COMPILER=/path/to/gcc/bin/gcc -DCMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=/path/to/gcc/bin/g++ ..
$ cmake -DCMAKE_C_COMPILER=/path/to/clang/bin/clang -DCMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=/path/to/clang/bin/clang++ ..
```

### ENABLE_CCACHE

This option is to enable the use of `ccache`, which is for speeding up the compilation during daily development.

By default, **Nebula Graph** will take advantage of `ccache` if it's found. So you don't have to enable it for yourself.

If you want to disable `ccache`, it might be not enough to just turn `ENABLE_CCACHE` off. Since on some platforms, the `ccache` installation hooks up or precedes the compiler. For such a case, you have to set an environment variable `export CCACHE_DISABLE=true` or add a line `disable=true` to `~/.ccache/ccache.conf`. We may do this for you automatically in the future.

Please see the [official documentation](https://ccache.dev/manual/3.7.6.html) for more details.

### NEBULA_USE_LINKER

This option allows users to use an alternative linker, e.g. `gold`. Options are `bfd`, `lld` and `gold` for now. Among them, `bfd` and `gold` belong to GNU binutils, while `lld` needs to install LLVM / Clang. Besides, you can use this parameter to specify the absolute path of the linker when needed.

### NEBULA_THIRDPARTY_ROOT

This option is to explicitly specify the location of the third party.

## What to do next

* [Connect to Nebula Graph](../../3.quick-start/3.connect-to-nebula-graph.md)
* [Try Nebula Graph CRUD](../../3.quick-start/4.nebua-graph-crud.md)