# Nebula Spark Connector

Nebula Spark Connector is a Spark connector application for reading and writing Nebula Graph data in Spark standard format. Nebula Spark Connector consists of two parts: Reader and Writer.

* Reader
  
  Provide a Spark SQL interface. This interface can be used to read Nebula Graph data. Read one vertex or edge type data at a time, and assemble the result into a Spark DataFrame.

* Writer

  Provide a Spark SQL interface. Use this interface to write data in DataFrame format to Nebula Graph on a strip-by-strip or bulk basis.

For more information, see [Nebula Spark Connector](https://github.com/vesoft-inc/nebula-spark-utils/blob/v2.0.0/nebula-spark-connector/README.md).

## Use cases

Nebula Spark Connector applicable to the following scenarios:

* Migrate data between different Nebula Graph clusters.

* Migrate data between different graph spaces in the same Nebula Graph cluster.

* Migrate data between Nebula Graph and other data sources.

## Benefits

* Provide kinds of connection configuration items, such as timeout period, number of connection retries, number of execution retries, etc.

* Provide kinds of data configuration items, such as setting the corresponding column as vertex ID, starting vertex ID, destination vertex ID ,or attributes when writing data.

* Reader supports non-attribute reading and full attribute reading.

* Reader supports reading Nebula Graph data into VertexRDD and EdgeRDD, and supports non-Long vertex IDs.

* Nebula Spark Connector 2.0 unifies the extended data source of SparkSQL, and uses DataSourceV2 to extend Nebula Graph data.
