# Uninstall Nebula Graph

This topic describes how to uninstall Nebula Graph.

!!! caution

    Before re-installing Nebula Graph on a machine, follow this topic to completely uninstall the old Nebula Graph, in case the remaining data interferes with the new services, including inconsistencies between Meta services.

## Prerequisite

The Nebula Graph services should be stopped before the uninstallation. For more information, see [Manage Nebula Graph services](../2.quick-start/5.start-stop-service.md).

## Step 1: Delete data files of the Storage and Meta Services

If you have modified the `data_path` in the configuration files for the Meta Service and Storage Service, the directories where Nebula Graph stores data may not be in the installation path of Nebula Graph. Check the configuration files to confirm the data paths, and then manually delete the directories to clear all data.

!!! Note

    For a Nebula Graph cluster, delete the data files of all Storage and Meta servers.

1. Check the [Storage Service disk settings](../5.configurations-and-logs/1.configurations/4.storage-config.md#disk). For example:

    ```bash
    ########## Disk ##########
    # Root data path. Split by comma. e.g. --data_path=/disk1/path1/,/disk2/path2/
    # One path per Rocksdb instance.
    --data_path=/nebula/data/storage
    ```

2. Check the Metad Service configurations and find the corresponding metadata directories.

3. Delete the data and the directories found in step 2.

## Step 2: Delete the installation directories

!!! Note

    Delete all installation directories, including the `cluster.id` file in them.

The default installation path is `/usr/local/nebula`, which is specified by `--prefix` while installing Nebula Graph.

### Uninstall Nebula Graph deployed with source code

Find the installation directories of Nebula Graph, and delete them all.

### Uninstall Nebula Graph deployed with RPM packages

1. Run the following command to get the Nebula Graph version.

    ```bash
    $ rpm -qa | grep "nebula"
    ```

   The return message is as follows.

    ```bash
    nebula-graph-{{ nebula.release }}-1.x86_64
    ```

2. Run the following command to uninstall Nebula Graph.

    ```bash
    sudo rpm -e <nebula_version>
    ```

   For example:

    ```bash
    sudo rpm -e nebula-graph-{{ nebula.release }}-1.x86_64
    ```

3. Delete the installation directories.

### Uninstall Nebula Graph deployed with DEB packages

1. Run the following command to get the Nebula Graph version.

    ```bash
    $ dpkg -l | grep "nebula"
    ```

   The return message is as follows.

    ```bash
    ii  nebula-graph  {{ nebula.release }}  amd64     Nebula Package built using CMake
    ```

2. Run the following command to uninstall Nebula Graph.

    ```bash
    sudo dpkg -r <nebula_version>
    ```

   For example:

    ```bash
    sudo dpkg -r nebula-graph
    ```

3. Delete the installation directories.

### Uninstall Nebula Graph deployed with Docker Compose

1. In the `nebula-docker-compose` directory, run the following command to stop the Nebula Graph services.

    ```bash
    docker-compose down -v
    ```

2. Delete the `nebula-docker-compose` directory.
