# Enable mTLS in NebulaGraph

Transport Layer Security (TLS) is an encryption protocol in wide use on the Internet. TLS, which was formerly called SSL, authenticates the server in a client-server connection and encrypts communications between client and server so that external parties cannot spy on the communications. Its working principle is mainly to protect data transmitted over the network by using encryption algorithms to prevent data interception or tampering during transmission. During the TLS connection establishment process, the server sends a digital certificate containing a public key and some identity information to the client. This certificate is issued by a trusted third-party Certification Authority (CA). The client verifies this digital certificate to confirm the identity of the server.

In the NebulaGraph environment running in Kubernetes, mutual TLS (mTLS) is used to encrypt the communication between the client and server by default, which means both the client and server need to verify their identities. This article explains how to enable mTLS encryption in NebulaGraph running in K8s.

## Prerequisites

- NebulaGraph Operator has been installed.
- A NebulaGraph cluster has been created. For details, see [Create a NebulaGraph cluster with kubectl](../3.deploy-nebula-graph-cluster/3.1create-cluster-with-kubectl.md) or [Create a NebulaGraph cluster with Helm](../3.deploy-nebula-graph-cluster/3.2create-cluster-with-helm.md).
- Certificates and their corresponding private keys have been generated for the client and server, and the CA certificate has been generated. For details, see [Generate Certificates Manually](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/certificates/).

  !!! note

        In the cluster created using Operator, the client and server use the same CA root certificate by default. 

## Encryption policies

NebulaGraph provides three encryption policies for mTLS:

- Encryption of data transmission between the client and the Graph service.
  
  This policy only involves encryption between the client and the Graph service and does not encrypt data transmission between other services in the cluster.

- Encrypt the data transmission between clients, the Graph service, the Meta service, and the Storage service.
  
  This policy encrypts data transmission between the client, Graph service, Meta service, and Storage service in the cluster.

- Encryption of data transmission related to the Meta service within the cluster.
  
  This policy only involves encrypting data transmission related to the Meta service within the cluster and does not encrypt data transmission between other services or the client.

For different encryption policies, you need to configure different fields in the cluster configuration file. For more information, see [Authentication policies](../../7.data-security/4.ssl.md#authentication_policies).

## mTLS with certificate hot-reloading

NebulaGraph Operator supports enabling mTLS with certificate hot-reloading. The following provides an example of the configuration file to enable mTLS between the client and the Graph service.

### Sample configurations

??? info "Expand to view the sample configurations of mTLS"

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: apps.nebula-graph.io/v1alpha1
    kind: NebulaCluster
    metadata:
      name: nebula
    spec:
      exporter:
        image: vesoft/nebula-stats-exporter
        replicas: 1
        maxRequests: 20
      graphd:
        config:
          accept_partial_success: "true"
          ca_client_path: certs/root.crt
          ca_path: certs/root.crt
          cert_path: certs/server.crt
          enable_graph_ssl: "true"
          enable_intra_zone_routing: "true"
          key_path: certs/server.key
          logtostderr: "1"
          redirect_stdout: "false"
          stderrthreshold: "0"
          stick_to_intra_zone_on_failure: "true"
          timestamp_in_logfile_name: "false"    
        initContainers:
          - name: init-auth-sidecar
            command:
              - /bin/sh
              - -c
            args:
              - cp /certs/* /credentials/
            imagePullPolicy: Always
            image: reg.vesoft-inc.com/cloud-dev/nebula-certs:latest
            volumeMounts:
              - name: credentials
                mountPath: /credentials
        sidecarContainers:
          - name: auth-sidecar
            imagePullPolicy: Always
            image: reg.vesoft-inc.com/cloud-dev/nebula-certs:latest
            volumeMounts:
              - name: credentials
                mountPath: /credentials
        volumes:
          - name: credentials
            emptyDir:
              medium: Memory
        volumeMounts:
          - name: credentials
            mountPath: /usr/local/nebula/certs
        logVolumeClaim:
          resources:
            requests:
              storage: 1Gi
          storageClassName: local-path
        resources:
          requests:
            cpu: "200m"
            memory: "500Mi"
          limits:
            cpu: "1"
            memory: "1Gi"
        replicas: 1
        image: reg.vesoft-inc.com/rc/nebula-graphd-ent
        version: v3.5.0-sc
      metad:
        licenseManagerURL: "192.168.8.53:9119"
        resources:
          requests:
            cpu: "300m"
            memory: "500Mi"
          limits:
            cpu: "1"
            memory: "1Gi"
        replicas: 1
        image: reg.vesoft-inc.com/rc/nebula-metad-ent
        version: v3.5.0-sc
        dataVolumeClaim:
          resources:
            requests:
              storage: 2Gi
          storageClassName: local-path
        logVolumeClaim:
          resources:
            requests:
              storage: 1Gi
          storageClassName: local-path
      storaged:
        resources:
          requests:
            cpu: "300m"
            memory: "500Mi"
          limits:
            cpu: "1"
            memory: "1Gi"
        replicas: 1
        image: reg.vesoft-inc.com/rc/nebula-storaged-ent
        version: v3.5.0-sc
        dataVolumeClaims:
          - resources:
              requests:
                storage: 2Gi
            storageClassName: local-path
        logVolumeClaim:
          resources:
            requests:
              storage: 1Gi
          storageClassName: local-path
        enableAutoBalance: true
      reference:
        name: statefulsets.apps
        version: v1
      schedulerName: default-scheduler
      imagePullPolicy: Always
      imagePullSecrets:
        - name: nebula-image
      enablePVReclaim: true
      topologySpreadConstraints:
      - topologyKey: "kubernetes.io/hostname"
        whenUnsatisfiable: "ScheduleAnyway"
    ```

### Configure `spec.<meta|graph|storage>.config`

To enable mTLS between the client and the Graph service, configure the `spec.graphd.config` field in the cluster configuration file. The paths specified in fields with `*_path` correspond to file paths relative to `/user/local/nebula`. **It's important to avoid using absolute paths to prevent path recognition errors.**

```yaml
spec:
  graph:
    config:
      ca_client_path: certs/root.crt
      ca_path: certs/root.crt
      cert_path: certs/server.crt
      enable_graph_ssl: "true"
      key_path: certs/server.key
```

For the configurations of the other two authentication policies:

- To enable mTLS between the client, the Graph service, the Meta service, and the Storage service:
  
  Configure the `spec.metad.config`, `spec.graphd.config`, and `spec.storaged.config` fields in the cluster configuration file.

  ```yaml
  spec:
    graph:
      config:
        ca_client_path: certs/root.crt
        ca_path: certs/root.crt
        cert_path: certs/server.crt
        enable_ssl: "true"
        key_path: certs/server.key
    metad:
      config:
        ca_client_path: certs/root.crt
        ca_path: certs/root.crt
        cert_path: certs/server.crt
        enable_ssl: "true"
        key_path: certs/server.key
    storaged:
      config:
        ca_client_path: certs/root.crt
        ca_path: certs/root.crt
        cert_path: certs/server.crt
        enable_ssl: "true"
        key_path: certs/server.key
  ```

- To enable mTLS related to the Meta service:
  
  Configure the `spec.metad.config`, `spec.graphd.config`, and `spec.storaged.config` fields in the cluster configuration file.

  ```yaml
  spec:
    graph:
      config:
        ca_client_path: certs/root.crt
        ca_path: certs/root.crt
        cert_path: certs/server.crt
        enable_meta_ssl: "true"
        key_path: certs/server.key
    metad:
      config:
        ca_client_path: certs/root.crt
        ca_path: certs/root.crt
        cert_path: certs/server.crt
        enable_meta_ssl: "true"
        key_path: certs/server.key
    storaged:
      config:
        ca_client_path: certs/root.crt
        ca_path: certs/root.crt
        cert_path: certs/server.crt
        enable_meta_ssl: "true"
        key_path: certs/server.key
  ```  

### Configure `initContainers`, `sidecarContainers`, `volumes`, and `volumeMounts`

`initContainers`, `sidecarContainers`, `volumes`, and `volumeMounts` fields are essential for implementing mTLS certificate online hot-reloading. For the encryption scenario where only the Graph service needs to be encrypted, you need to configure `initContainers`, `sidecarContainers`, `volumes`, and `volumeMounts` under `spec.graph.config`. 

#### `initContainers`

The `initContainers` field is utilized to configure an init-container responsible for generating certificate files. Note that the `volumeMounts` field specifies how the `credentials` volume, shared with the NebulaGraph container, is mounted, providing read and write access. 

In the following example, `init-auth-sidecar` performs the task of copying files from the `certs` directory within the image to `/credentials`. After this task is completed, the init-container exits. 

Example:

```yaml
initContainers:
- name: init-auth-sidecar
    command:
      - /bin/sh
      - -c
    args:
      - cp /certs/* /credentials/
    imagePullPolicy: Always
    image: reg.vesoft-inc.com/cloud-dev/nebula-certs:latest
    volumeMounts:
      - name: credentials
        mountPath: /credentials
```

#### `sidecarContainers`

The `sidecarContainers` field is dedicated to periodically monitoring the expiration time of certificates and, when they are near expiration, generating new certificates to replace the existing ones. This process ensures seamless online certificate hot-reloading without any service interruptions. The `volumeMounts` field specifies how the `credentials` volume is mounted, and this volume is shared with the NebulaGraph container.

In the example provided, the `auth-sidecar` container employs the `crond` process, which runs a crontab script every minute. This script checks the certificate's expiration status using the `openssl x509 -noout -enddate` command. 

Example:

```yaml
sidecarContainers:
- name: auth-sidecar
  imagePullPolicy: Always
  image: reg.vesoft-inc.com/cloud-dev/nebula-certs:latest
  volumeMounts:
    - name: credentials
      mountPath: /credentials
```

#### `volumes`

The `volumes` field defines the storage volumes that need to be attached to the NebulaGraph pod. In the following example, the `credentials` volume is of type `emptyDir`, which is a temporary storage volume. Multiple containers can mount the `emptyDir` volume, and they all have read and write access to the same files within the volume.

Example:

```yaml
volumes:
- name: credentials
  emptyDir:
    medium: Memory
```

#### `volumeMounts`

The `volumeMounts` field specifies the location within the container where the storage volume is mounted. In the example below, the `credentials` storage volume is mounted at the path `/usr/local/nebula/certs` within the NebulaGraph container.

Example:

```yaml
volumeMounts:
- name: credentials
  mountPath: /usr/local/nebula/certs
```

### Configure `sslCerts`

The `spec.sslCerts` field specifies the encrypted certificates for NebulaGraph Operator and the [nebula-agent](https://github.com/vesoft-inc/nebula-agent) client (if you do not use the default nebula-agent image in Operator).

For the other two scenarios where the Graph service, Meta service, and Storage service need to be encrypted, and where only the Meta service needs to be encrypted, you not only need to configure `initContainers`, `sidecarContainers`, `volumes`, and `volumeMounts` under `spec.graph.config`, `spec.storage.config`, and `spec.meta.config`, but also configure `spec.sslCerts`. 

```yaml
spec:
  sslCerts:
    clientSecret: "client-cert"
    caSecret: "ca-cert" # The Secret name of the CA certificate.
    caCert: "root.crt"
```

The `insecureSkipVerify` field is used to determine whether the client will verify the server's certificate chain and hostname. In production environments, it is recommended to set this to `false` to ensure the security of communication. If set to `true`, the client will not verify the server's certificate chain and hostname.

```yaml
spec:
  sslCerts:
    insecureSkipVerify: false
```

!!! caution

    Make sure that you have added the hostname or IP of the server to the server's certificate's `subjectAltName` field before the `insecureSkipVerify` is set to `false`. If the hostname or IP of the server is not added, an error will occur when the client verifies the server's certificate chain and hostname. For details, see [openssl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/certificates/#openssl).

### Connect to the Graph service


After applying the cluster configuration file by running `kubectl apply -f`, you can use NebulaGraph Console to connect to the Graph service with the following command.

!!! note

    When mTLS is required for external clients to connect to the Graph service, you need to set the relevant SSL fields depending on different [clients](../../14.client/1.nebula-client.md). 

You can configure `spec.console` to start a NebulaGraph Console container in the cluster. For details, see [nebula-console](https://github.com/vesoft-inc/nebula-operator/blob/v{{operator.release}}/doc/user/nebula_console.md#nebula-console).

```yaml
spec:
  console:
    version: "nightly"
```
Then enter the console container and run the following command to connect to the Graph service.

```bash
nebula-console -addr nebula-graphd-svc.default.svc.cluster.local -port 9669 -u root  -p nebula -enable_ssl -ssl_root_ca_path /home/xxx/cert/root.crt -ssl_cert_path /home/xxx/cert/client.crt -ssl_private_key_path /home/xxx/cert/client.key
```

## mTLS without hot-reloading

??? info "If you don't need to perform TLS certificate hot-reloading and prefer to use TLS certificates stored in a Secret when deploying Kubernetes applications, expand to follow these steps"

    ### Create a TLS-type Secret

    In a K8s cluster, you can create Secrets to store sensitive information, such as passwords, OAuth tokens, and TLS certificates. In NebulaGraph, you can create a Secret to store TLS certificates and private keys. When creating a Secret, the type `tls` should be specified. A `tls` Secret is used to store TLS certificates.

    For example, to create a Secret for storing server certificates and private keys:

    ```bash
    kubectl create secret tls <server-cert> --key=<path/to/tls.key> --cert=<path/to/tls.cert> --namespace=<namespace>
    ```

    - `<server-cert>`: The name of the Secret storing the server certificate and private key.
    - `<path/to/tls.key>`: The path to the server private key file.
    - `<path/to/tls.cert>`: The path to the server certificate file.
    - `<namespace>`: The namespace where the Secret is located. If `--namespace` is not specified, it defaults to the `default` namespace.

    You can follow the above steps to create Secrets for the client certificate and private key, and the CA certificate.


    To view the created Secrets:

    ```bash
    kubectl get secret --namespace=<namespace> 
    ```

    ### Configure certifications

    Operator provides the `sslCerts` field to specify the encrypted certificates. The `sslCerts` field contains four subfields. These three fields `serverSecret`, `clientSecret`, and `caSecret` are used to specify the Secret names of the NebulaGraph server certificate, client certificate, and CA certificate, respectively. 
    When you specify these three fields, Operator reads the certificate content from the corresponding Secret and mounts it into the cluster's Pod. The `autoMountServerCerts` must be set to `true` if you want to automatically mount the server certificate and private key into the Pod. The default value is `false`.

    ```yaml
    sslCerts:
    autoMountServerCerts: "true"    # Automatically mount the server certificate and private key into the Pod.
    serverSecret: "server-cert"     # The name of the server certificate Secret.
    serverCert: ""                  # The key name of the certificate in the server certificate Secret, default is tls.crt.
    serverKey: ""                   # The key name of the private key in the server certificate Secret, default is tls.key.
    clientSecret: "client-cert"     # The name of the client certificate Secret.
    clientCert: ""                  # The key name of the certificate in the client certificate Secret, default is tls.crt.
    clientKey: ""                   # The key name of the private key in the client certificate Secret, default is tls.key.
    caSecret: "ca-cert"             # The name of the CA certificate Secret.
    caCert: ""                      # The key name of the certificate in the CA certificate Secret, default is ca.crt.
    ```

    The `serverCert` and `serverKey`, `clientCert` and `clientKey`, and `caCert` are used to specify the key names of the certificate and private key of the server Secret, the key names of the certificate and private key of the client Secret, and the key name of the CA Secret certificate. If you do not customize these field values, Operator defaults `serverCert` and `clientCert` to `tls.crt`, `serverKey` and `clientKey` to `tls.key`, and `caCert` to `ca.crt`. However, in the K8s cluster, the TLS type Secret uses `tls.crt` and `tls.key` as the default key names for the certificate and private key. Therefore, after creating the NebulaGraph cluster, you need to manually change the `caCert` field from `ca.crt` to `tls.crt` in the cluster configuration, so that the Operator can correctly read the content of the CA certificate. Before you customize these field values, you need to specify the key names of the certificate and private key in the Secret when creating it. For how to create a Secret with the key name specified, run the `kubectl create secret generic -h` command for help.

    You can use the `insecureSkipVerify` field to decide whether the client will verify the server's certificate chain and hostname. In production environments, it is recommended to set this to `false` to ensure the security of communication. If set to `true`, the client will not verify the server's certificate chain and hostname.

    ```yaml
    sslCerts:
    # Determines whether the client needs to verify the server's certificate chain and hostname when establishing an SSL connection. 
    insecureSkipVerify: false 
    ```

    !!! caution

        Make sure that you have added the hostname or IP of the server to the server's certificate's `subjectAltName` field before the `insecureSkipVerify` is set to `false`. If the hostname or IP of the server is not added, an error will occur when the client verifies the server's certificate chain and hostname. For details, see [openssl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/certificates/#openssl).

    When the certificates are approaching expiration, they can be automatically updated by installing [cert-manager](https://cert-manager.io/docs/installation/supported-releases/). NebulaGraph will monitor changes to the certificate directory files, and once a change is detected, it will load the new certificate content into memory. 

    ### Encryption strategies

    NebulaGraph offers three encryption strategies that you can choose and configure according to your needs.

    - Encryption of client-graph and all inter-service communications

      If you want to encrypt all data transmission between the client, Graph service, Meta service, and Storage service, you need to add the `enable_ssl = true` field to each service.

      Here is an example configuration:

      ```yaml
      apiVersion: apps.nebula-graph.io/v1alpha1
      kind: NebulaCluster
      metadata:
        name: nebula
        namespace: default
      spec:
        sslCerts:
          autoMountServerCerts: "true"  # Automatically mount the server certificate and private key into the Pod.
          serverSecret: "server-cert"   # The Secret name of the server certificate and private key.
          clientSecret: "client-cert"   # The Secret name of the client certificate and private key.
          caSecret: "ca-cert"           # The Secret name of the CA certificate.
        graphd:
          config:
            enable_ssl: "true"
        metad:
          config:
            enable_ssl: "true"
        storaged:
          config:
            enable_ssl: "true"
      ```


    - Encryption of only Graph service communication

      If the K8s cluster is deployed in the same data center and only the port of the Graph service is exposed externally, you can choose to encrypt only data transmission between the client and the Graph service. In this case, other services can communicate internally without encryption. Just add the `enable_graph_ssl = true` field to the Graph service.

      Here is an example configuration:

      ```yaml
      apiVersion: apps.nebula-graph.io/v1alpha1
      kind: NebulaCluster
      metadata:
        name: nebula
        namespace: default
      spec:
        sslCerts:
          autoMountServerCerts: "true"  
          serverSecret: "server-cert"
          caSecret: "ca-cert"
        graphd:
          config:
            enable_graph_ssl: "true"
      ```

      !!! note

            Because Operator doesn't need to call the Graph service through an interface, it's not necessary to set `clientSecret` in `sslCerts`.

    - Encryption of only Meta service communication

      If you need to transmit confidential information to the Meta service, you can choose to encrypt data transmission related to the Meta service. In this case, you need to add the `enable_meta_ssl = true` configuration to each component.

      Here is an example configuration:

      ```yaml
      apiVersion: apps.nebula-graph.io/v1alpha1
      kind: NebulaCluster
      metadata:
        name: nebula
        namespace: default
      spec:
        sslCerts:
          autoMountServerCerts: "true"
          serverSecret: "server-cert"
          clientSecret: "client-cert"
          caSecret: "ca-cert"
        graphd:
          config:
            enable_meta_ssl: "true"
        metad:
          config:
            enable_meta_ssl: "true"
        storaged:
          config:
            enable_meta_ssl: "true"
      ```

      After setting up the encryption policy, when an external [client](../../14.client/1.nebula-client.md) needs to connect to the Graph service with mutual TLS, you still need to set the relevant TLS fields according to the different clients. See the Use NebulaGraph Console to connect to Graph service section below for examples.

    ### Example of enabling mTLS without hot-reloading

    1. Use the pre-generated server and client certificates and private keys, and the CA certificate to create a Secret for each.

      ```yaml
      kubectl create secret tls <client/server/ca-cert-secret> --key=<client/server/ca.key> --cert=<client/server/ca.crt>
      ```

      - `tls`: Indicates that the type of secret being created is TLS, which is used to store TLS certificates.
      - `<client/server/ca-cert-secret>`: Specifies the name of the new secret being created, which can be customized.
      - `--key=<client/server/ca.key>`: Specifies the path to the private key file of the TLS certificate to be stored in the secret.
      - `--cert=<client/server/ca.crt>`: Specifies the path to the public key certificate file of the TLS certificate to be stored in the secret.
      

    2. Add server certificate, client certificate, CA certificate configuration, and encryption policy configuration in the corresponding cluster instance YAML file. For details, see [Encryption strategies](#encryption_strategies).
      
      For example, add encryption configuration for transmission data between client, Graph service, Meta service, and Storage service.

      ```yaml
      apiVersion: apps.nebula-graph.io/v1alpha1
      kind: NebulaCluster
      metadata:
        name: nebula
        namespace: default
      spec:
        sslCerts:
          autoMountServerCerts: "true"
          serverSecret: "server-cert"  // The name of the server Certificate Secret.
          clientSecret: "client-cert"  // The name of the client Certificate Secret.
          caSecret: "ca-cert"          // The name of the CA Certificate Secret.
        graphd:
          config:
            enable_ssl: "true"
        metad:
          config:
            enable_ssl: "true"
        storaged:
          config:
            enable_ssl: "true"
      ```

    3. Use `kubectl apply -f` to apply the file to the Kubernetes cluster.

    4. Verify that the values of `serverCert`, `serverKey`, `clientCert`, `clientKey`, `caCert` under the `sslCerts` field in the cluster configuration match the key names of the certificates and private keys stored in the created Secret.

      ```bash
      # Check the key names of the certificate and private key stored in the Secret. For example, check the key name of the CA certificate stored in the Secret.
      kubectl get secret ca-cert -o yaml
      ```

      ```bash
      # Check the cluster configuration file.
      kubectl get nebulacluster nebula -o yaml
      ```

      Example output:

      ```
      ...
      spec:
        sslCerts:
          autoMountServerCerts: "true"
          serverSecret: server-cert
          serverCert: tls.crt
          serverKey: tls.key
          clientSecret: client-cert
          clientCert: tls.crt
          clientKey: tls.key
          caSecret: ca-cert
          caCert: ca.crt    
      ...
      ```

      If the key names of the certificates and private keys stored in the Secret are different from the values of `serverCert`, `serverKey`, `clientCert`, `clientKey`, `caCert` under the `sslCerts` field in the cluster configuration, you need to execute `kubectl edit nebulacluster <cluster_name>` to manually modify the cluster configuration file.

      In the example output, the key name of the CA certificate in the TLS-type Secret is `tls.crt`, so you need to change the value of caCert from `ca.crt` to `tls.crt`.

    5. Use NebulaGraph Console to connect to the Graph service and establish a secure TLS connection.

      Example:

      ```
      kubectl run -ti --image vesoft/nebula-console:v{{console.release}} --restart=Never -- nebula-console -addr 10.98.xxx.xx  -port 9669 -u root -p nebula -enable_ssl -ssl_root_ca_path /path/to/cert/root.crt -ssl_cert_path /path/to/cert/client.crt -ssl_private_key_path /path/to/cert/client.key
      ```

      - `-enable_ssl`: Use mTLS when connecting to NebulaGraph.
      - `-ssl_root_ca_path`: Specify the storage path of the CA root certificate.
      - `-ssl_cert_path`: Specify the storage path of the TLS public key certificate.
      - `-ssl_private_key_path`: Specify the storage path of the TLS private key.
      - For details on using NebulaGraph Console to connect to the Graph service, see [Connect to NebulaGraph](../4.connect-to-nebula-graph-service.md).

      !!! note

            If you set `spec.console` to start a NebulaGraph Console container in the cluster, you can enter the console container and run the following command to connect to the Graph service.

            ```bash
            nebula-console -addr 10.98.xxx.xx  -port 9669 -u root -p nebula -enable_ssl -ssl_root_ca_path /path/to/cert/root.crt -ssl_cert_path /path/to/cert/client.crt -ssl_private_key_path /path/to/cert/client.key
            ```
      
    At this point, you can enable mTLS in NebulaGraph.

