# DROP TAG

`DROP TAG` drops a tag with the given name in the current working graph space.

A vertex can have one or more tags.

- If a vertex has only one tag, the vertex **CANNOT** be accessed after you drop it. But its edges are available. The vertex will be deleted in the next compaction.

- If a vertex has multiple tags, the vertex is still accessible after you drop one of them. But all the properties defined by this dropped tag **CANNOT** be accessed.

This operation only deletes the Schema data. All the files or directories in the disk will not be deleted directly until the next compaction.

## Prerequisites

- Running the `DROP TAG` statement requires some [privileges](../../7.data-security/1.authentication/3.role-list.md) for the graph space. Otherwise, Nebula Graph throws an error.

- Before you drop a tag, make sure that the tag does not have any indexes. Otherwise, the conflict error (`[ERROR (-8)]: Conflict!`) will be returned when you run the `DROP TAG` statement. To drop an index, see [DROP INDEX](../14.native-index-statements/6.drop-native-index.md).

## Syntax

```ngql
DROP TAG [IF EXISTS] <tag_name>;
```

- `IF NOT EXISTS`: Detects if the tag that you want to drop exists. Only when it exists will it be dropped.

- `tag_name`: Specifies the tag name that you want to drop. You can drop only one tag in one statement.

## Example

```ngql
nebula> CREATE TAG test(p1 string, p2 int);
nebula> DROP TAG test;
```

!!! Note

    In nGQL, there is no such statement to drop a certain tag of a vertex with the given name.

    * In openCypher, you can use the statement `REMOVE v:LABEL` to drop the tag `LABLE` of the vertex `v`.
    * In nGQL，after `CREATE TAG` and `INSERT VERTEX`, you can add a `TAG` on the vertex. But there is no way to drop the `TAG` afterward.
    
    We recommend you to add a field to identify the logical deletion in the schema. For example, add `removed` to the schema of each tag.
